oh
yeah
wo oh boy y'all brought some friends
huh y'all BR some friends
huh
let's
go good morning good afternoon good
evening no matter where you're coming
from hope you all are doing well
welcome look at
y'all look at y'all what's going on
every everybody welcome welcome welcome
hope everyone's doing
well let's
goo chat spicy tonight we'll turn on the
slow but for now let's let let let's let
let's let's get a little a little
excited a little hyped glad you're all
here you brought some friends it's good
to see you nice to meet you if this is
your first time this is your first time
on Twitch just go ahead and put in first
time or first into chat for me please
let's get used to using chat here folks
but first if it's your first
time there's no way that I'm paying
attention to the to the subs or anything
that right now I I want to see the
first welcome glad you found
us now how did you find us if you uh if
you if you found this from Twitter give
me a thumbs up in chat for me please you
found this from Twitter give me a thumbs
up
if you found us from Reddit give us a
thumbs
up hey we out here we ain't we ain't
outside but we live we ain't outside but
we live what's going on
everybody we got a lot of fun stuff to
get to tonight this is day one of a 30
week software engineering boot camp and
we got a lot on the plate this evening
we're going to take some time to get to
know each other a little bit we're going
to take some time to get to understand
the opportunity that's in front of us
we're going to talk a little bit about
what it means to become a software
engineer how you can actually do that
we're going to talk
about how to actually learn a lot of
folks set on this path and they don't
get to the end because they never
actually learned how to learn so that's
what we're starting tonight and then
we're going to get to some basics of
HTML so we got a lot to a lot to get
through
now if you were on Discord which you all
should be exclamation point Discord and
chat if you're not on
Discord there was a question and I
always like to go live with a question
enables me to get to know you a little
bit see where folks
lean and so the question today
was would you rather have every movie
that you watch
slowly transition into
Shrek
or would you rather every song you
listen to slowly transition into Allstar
by
Smashmouth now we got a lot of shrikes
in
here I don't think I've seen all right
there we go I saw one all star that was
It smash M be wild and recently I don't
know if you saw some of the stuff
they've been getting into but I think
Shrek might be the safer bet here all
right we're good we got the Shrek folks
in the
house all right everybody welcome
welcome welcome glad you found us glad
you're here we're about to do this thing
all right so before we dive too deep
into actually learning tonight I want to
take some time to explain why we're here
what we're doing and hopefully
that's what you signed up for so tonight
we start a journey to becoming a
software engineer by the end of class
tomorrow you will be a software
engineer let me say one more time you
know what I'm going to go big Le on here
let's let's get
close by the end of class on Thursday
let's say Thursday Thursday sorry class
Thursday by the end of class on Thursday
you will be a software engineer you will
all have written code now there are some
some nerds in the bunch that are like
well Leon just writing codes and not
being a software
engineer knock it off if you can write
code you understand the systems and
tools behind the code that you're
writing and you conduct yourself as a
professional you're going to call
yourself a software engineer we're going
to have some haters that are are going
to disagree with us but
them what we're here to do today is to
lay that foundation so that by the end
of 30
weeks not only you a software
engineer not only have you gotten paid
clients not only have you built tons of
real projects sunk a 100 hours into a
fully custom project of your own not
only have you contributed to open source
but you are fully prepared to enter the
workforce as a software
engineer right out the gate I'm going to
tell you one thing that I hope sinks in
today don't get got we go get we don't
get got we go get exactly one thing that
I hope sinks in today and that learning
to code is a
journey but you can do
it I've seen folks from all walks of
life all shapes sizes shades Creeds do
it so I honestly believe in my heart of
hearts you can do it but learning to
code is not enough we're going to talk
about that later today learning to code
is not the only thing in fact it's a
small part of what it takes to get a job
and so we're going to talk about the
whole journey the way that you go from
maybe just figuring out if this is the
career for you to actually Landing that
job and
this isn't our first rodeo folks this is
cohort 2 our last cohort saw
75 folks get jobs yes I know Leon you
said 70 you said 72 in the Tweet well
guess what I got three more for y'all I
got three more for y'all uh so we're at
now
now that journey is a
long difficult
Journey
but we're going to get there
together if you just turn off the screen
and you never listen to me again here's
what I want you to to take away you need
a community if you're going to learn how
to code you need a community when you
get
stuck and something doesn't make sense
you don't give up you go to your
community what we built in the last
cohort is hands down the best community
to learn code live online and we're
going to keep it that way so if this
isn't for you and you still want to
learn how to code that's fine find your
people find your community but what we
have is an amazing one and you're seeing
it in chat right now we got a lot of new
folks with us tonight we got a lot of
old folks too we got a lot of alumni
folks that already put in those Blood
Sweat and Tears to get their jobs but
they're coming back because they want
you to be successful mentors that want
you to be
successful folks that have walked this
walk have talked that talk and now want
to help you do the same
thing there's a lot of you I love seeing
it all right before we get too deep into
it uh you're noticing a few things
happening here uh there are these these
sub notifications that are going off uh
that is something that you can do on
Twitch you can you can give a small
amount of money and your name pops up
and the sub goes off I want to be very
very very
clear you do not have to sub I know and
then somebody drops a 10 bomb I do not
want you to sub honestly and anything
that does get subbed it's donate it to
the nonprofit that I work at during the
day you literally cannot pay me money
for anything that I do I will never ever
but any of my content behind a pay wall
you will always have access to
Everything I Do
for
free the goal of this boot camp is for
you to go from zero experience to a job
with paying
0 I will never even recommend a book a
course a tutorial that is not
free right now there's a window open
folks my there is a window open and in
this window you can become a software
engineer for free and without a
degree and I want to help you on that
Journey I'm going to tell you a little
bit about myself and how I got to that
where we are now why I started this boot
camp right so I'm going to give you a
little bit about a little bit about me
just so you understand the person that's
going to be talking to you for the next
30 weeks so my background is I was very
blessed I grew up in Philly and in sixth
grade I had a computer science class it
was in
qbasic if I've got some old heads in
here and maybe you know about qbasic but
it's it's it's it's it's a throwback all
right now in this sixth grade computer
science class where I was writing qbasic
I got a sailboat to go from one side of
the screen to the other and I I lost my
I thought I had magical powers I
was hooked I was doing anything I could
do to learn how to code uh but I didn't
have a computer I definitely didn't have
a laptop like that's the thing I always
wanted and my dream of Dreams was a was
a laptop so I would take my my butt all
the way down to the library every day
after school and Tink around with
stuff then I was blessed uh in Philly we
have magnet schools I went to ens which
is engineering and Science and during
high school I had two two years of C++
classes two years that's
wild so I know that my background is one
of amazing privilege cuz back in the day
we didn't have programming courses and I
had three years of it before I even got
to
University when I got to University uh
at Yale I didn't study any code I went
all in on biology uh in my mind Dr
lawyer dentist was the only opportunity
the only way to change my future and so
that's what I went all in on around my
junior
year I started to get this
entrepreneurship bug I wanted to I
wanted to build I wanted to create I
wanted to build nonprofits and companies
and I started to pick up a little bit of
code to like do those things to put up
landing pages and then in my senior year
I dropped out of Yale
I joined an incubator called Tech Stars
I raised a bunch of money uh for my
first company which was called social
sigh we did scientific surveying for
academics what we did was uh you would
say you a psychologist and you need to
run a survey not only did we have the
tools to create your survey but we also
had the participants that would take it
uh we were in 4,000 different
universities I had an associate position
at Harvard
and we had hundreds and hundreds of
academic articles that used our software
and while I was doing that I got
jealous I got really jealous dude is a
nerd I am a nerd I'll take I'll wear
that proud uh I got really
jealous my Engineers that were on my
team that were that were at my company
they could think of
something and bring it into
existence they had a supreme
superpower the idea the technology
whatever they wanted they could chug a
Red Bull and get it
done and so I pushed myself to learn the
code I wanted that superpower and I got
pretty decent at it eventually uh after
interacting with General Assembly which
is another big boot camp company they
asked me to start teing a class and then
teaching a class and now I'm
distinguished faculty with General
Assembly I've been teaching their
parttime time courses for almost 10
years
now and about halfway in my journey at
GA I saw the power of what you could do
at GA in 12 weeks we were giving people
those
superpowers and about 5 years ago I
wrapped up my company and I joined a
nonprofit called resilient
coders so at resilient coders we started
in
Boston Boston has the second largest
Tech economy outside of Silicon Valley
yet when we looked in our communities of
color we saw double digigit unemployment
rates how do you have the second largest
tech economy but communities that have
double digit unemployment rates it it
makes no sense but there was a
disconnect the individuals that needed
those jobs the most did not have the
skills yet to obtain those jobs and so
that's what we do at RC RC is a 20 week
intensive boot camp for folks of color
in the Boston Philadelphia and now
Pittsburgh area and in those 20 weeks
they get the skills they need to command
amazing jobs in the last year 100% of
our graduates have gone on to get
amazing opportunities we just sent eight
people to Amazon in the last year we're
sending individuals to fangs to amazing
top tier startups but what we're doing
is we're we're showing that there is a
way to take these skills teach it to
those that need it the most and have
their lives and their future change for
the better
so when the pandemic hit I'm not a
doctor I'm not a nurse I can't gear up
and go do something effective but I have
a skill that I think I'm somewhat decent
at and that's teaching people to code so
I started 100 devs um 100 devs was made
so that folks that were hurting that
were in the feeling the pandemic could
get those skills that I've seen change
other folks lives and use it to change
their
own now a year later 75 jobs doesn't
sound too bad but it's not
100 this program is called 100 devs and
I want 100 not 75 I want 100 so we're
doing it again and that's why you're
here I didn't hit my goal yet so we're
doing it we're doing another
round and there's one other thing I want
to while we're at this point of the
story there's one other thing I want to
get
to let's let's rewind a little bit back
to when I was in
university uh when I was in university I
get a little choked up when I tell a
story so bear with me when I was in
university I moved off campus and there
came a time when I was hungry I didn't
have money for food and I didn't have a
way of getting it
quickly and what I did was realized you
know what I can make websites so I got
my ass on Craigslist I made a
post and that same day someone responded
they paid me a deposit like actual
monies a deposit and I skipped the
skipped all the way to that grocery
store I skipped all the way there I was
happy as could be got myself enough
pasta and pasta sauce to last me a small
year and uh that that day changed my
life it changed my
life in that moment I
knew no matter how hard it
got no matter if I got fired I lost my
job nothing
mattered stay with me I had a
skill a skill that no one could ever
take away from me a skill that would put
food on the
table a skill that kept me fed and I
want
that I want that for
you I want that for you at the end of
the day that's what I want for you
now there's a lot of you here which
means that we got a lot of applications
that came through and I read them I'm
not through them all there's a lot of
y'all a lot of people showed up today
there's a lot of y'all but I read
them and the stories that you
shared the the the things that you're
going through are real I see see you I
hear you and I'm going to work my ass
off so that you feel the way that I feel
about having that
skill that's why I'm
here I want you to go home today knowing
that if you put in the work you give me
those 30
weeks you won't just have a job
you'll have a skill that is
yours that you can tap whenever you need
it to get the things that you
need that's why we're here and it's not
just me there are literally hundreds of
folks in this chat right now that have
already done it that want you to be
successful there are thousands of us on
Discord that want to help you get there
mentors that are giv giving up their
nights and weekends alumni that are
giving up their mornings and Saturdays
because they want you to have the same
thing that they
unlocked we don't get got we go get
exactly Pam we don't get got we go
get
so I know it takes a little bit of
trust I know it takes a little bit of
belief but you don't have to believe me
today
you don't have to believe me on class on
Thursday but give me a couple classes
and I think you'll start to believe that
what we're talking about is
real heck you can go on our Discord and
go into our celebrations Channel and see
all the folks the jobs they got the real
salaries that they
share the clients that they were able to
lock down you don't have to take my word
for it but but if you're not there yet
that's okay I'm going to work hard to
gain that trust and I realize that yes
the program is
free you will never pay me a dime I
don't want your money there's nothing
you can do to give me money all these
subs and donations they get donated to
resilient coders and specifically that
goes into a fund or emergency fund for
mental health support when folks need an
emergency doctor or medication or things
they can't afford that's what those that
money goes
towards just because a program is free
and money doesn't mean it's free in
time I know that a lot of you that are
here right
now are giving up time with your family
you're giving up time from the ones that
you love you're some of you right now
are in the break room trying to hide as
you watch on the on your phone I a
couple people wrote wrote out a about me
about that right it's not just money
it's time and I won't take that time for
granted you give me that time you're
going to walk away with
skills so yes program is free you'll
never pay a dime you'll never be given
something that costs money uh that you
have to do uh and I will respect that
investment of time that's my promise to
you cool now hopefully you are here
because you want to be a software
engineer the thing that we are focused
on is called Full stack web development
software Engineers write code but you
can write code for lots of different
things you can write code for your
mobile phone you can write code for
robots you can write code for
refrigerators these days but we're
focused on the code that's going to run
in your browser like Firefox or Chrome
the things like when you think of a
website that's what we're here to learn
software engineering is your profession
your specialty will be web
development
okay now A A lot of people are using the
the channel points and all that stuff
don't worry we're going to get to all
that if if twitch can be overwhelming at
first right twitch can be overwhelming
at first we're going to ease into
everything okay we're going to ease into
everything I know it can get a little a
little hectic a little hectic right
especially with so many people we're
going to ease into it we're going to
explain things but don't feel like you
have to have everything locked down
today that's not today's goal today's
goal is to present the opportunity for
you to get a taste of what it's going to
be like in the classroom but things will
come with time and if things don't make
sense that's all right you're going to
come to Discord
and we're going to help you figure out
all the things that you need to figure
out so on Discord we have lots of
wonderful channels uh we have so many
folks there that have been tirelessly
over the past couple weeks responding to
all your questions the as Leon channel
has exploded uh in all the best possible
ways uh we're going to talk about all
that but no there's a community to
support you and right now you don't need
to have an understanding of everything
you don't have to understand what all
these little bits and Bobs are doing
we'll get there with time 30 weeks is a
significant chunk of time give yourself
a little bit of Grace and we're going to
get there
together all right so going to go a
little Leon
here all right tonight we're covering
the basics and we're going to start off
by talking about software engineering as
a
career then we're going to move into the
course how it's structured the things
that'll be due what is expected all the
things that you're going to need then we
will move into learning how to learn
learning how to learn right it's the
most important thing you walk away from
this course people were like Leon I
learned how to code no you learned how
to learn you are all going to join jobs
that use a different stack different
Tech technology then that we're going to
learn but the skill that you're going to
have is the ability to pick up anything
quicker than your peers and that starts
tonight that starts with you learning
really how to
learn then we're going to move into
something called the client server model
that's basically how the internet works
and then we're going to see a little bit
of code and get our toes dipped into the
world of HTML just a little
bit you don't need anything tonight
just to be here to join us to watch I'm
not going to ask you to write code
tonight I'm not going to ask you to use
a text editor tonight uh you can just be
here participate in chat and you'll be
good all
right I always to start off with
questions before we always dive in each
lecture I always start off with
questions and so I know there's a ton of
questions so I'm going to take just one
or two right now because we're going to
cover a lot of stuff tonight and I'm
sure he going to answer a lot of your
questions do we get points for chatting
you get points for being here so when
you're watching the stream you get
something called Channel points those
Channel points can be redeemed for a lot
of stuff some silly some serious so the
silly stuff will be like you keep
hearing those sounds that pop up uh
eventually we'll turn back on like I I
have a vast collection of Pokemon cards
for I think it was like 50,000 Channel
points you can get a Pokemon card sent
to you so there are lots of things you
can do with those Channel
points will there be smaller groups yes
there's a lot of you here right now
that's too overwhelming for a lot of
people so we will over the next week or
so be breaking up Discord into smaller
groups location Affinity things that
will make it so you have your group of
people to bond with and go through this
experience
together no Tech skills uh that's fine
the expectation is that you have never
uh coded before that's the goal
here and like I said tonight tonight
we're we're we're reveling in the uh the
the wild this here but we'll turn on
slow mode uh and make sure that it it it
seems a little bit more easy to
participate in uh as we kind of continue
on we need software uh the only software
you're really going to need is a text
editor which we'll cover later on and a
browser that's it those the only two
things you'll need for the entire 30
weeks cool all right there's going to be
lots of questions I always like to start
off with a few but if you come on
Sunday all right on Sunday you are able
to ask any question you want we spent
three hours last Sunday just answering
questions right and so we will this
Sunday again have office hours you can
come ask bunch of questions and it's
just a question answer session for the
entire day that's it so we're going to
definitely come through uh on Sunday and
if you have lots of questions that's the
time to come through and get those
answered all right now let's see if we
can
uh turn down the sub alerts real
quick uh I'm going to mute the sound
alert just for now because I I know that
that has to be a little
overwhelming
there you go yeah so the sound alerts
are are muted for now I know tonight's
the the first class and so people are
okay that didn't work obviously uh let's
see if I turn them all the way
down I think that should
work all right we'll see if that does it
um the idea here is that there's a lot
of folks tonight a lot of folks are are
showing out splashing out it'll it'll
chill down a little bit all right so
we're all here to be software engineers
and there's good reason for why you
might want to be a software engineer
these days right
now there is a gold rush of sorts that
is
happening and everyone is flooding into
this space of wanting to learn how to
code and that's okay there's plenty of
room for us and we'll talk about that in
a second and the reason why it's
becoming such a popular career choice is
because it has a very high
pay right right now the average is 92k a
year it is what we would say is one of
the happiest careers right did y'all
hear that
sound did that still go off for you make
yep all right hold on one second let's
see hm
give one second
here sound alerts turned
off one second here oh that was the
that's that was that my bad so that was
sound alerts there give me one second
here
folks and
alerts
properties all right here we go I turned
off the sound alerts but not the actual
properties so let's go ahead one second
here all right so what we're going to do
is I'm going to turn down my alerts here
there we go
beautiful there we
go should be back we're
good so now you won't be able to hear
the transitions or anything but for next
class I'll have that figured out I know
it's just so many folks right now um so
we'll do it that
way cool so we shouldn't hear any uh
shouldn't hear any alerts now uh because
I've turned off the sound for everything
cool uh when I when I when I want to use
my sounds I can bring it back
up we can hear the
transitions all right well that that
should be fine
then all right cool so we
are good we don't hear the alerts we
hear the transitions beautiful all right
so career in software
engineering reason why a lot of folks
are looking to move into software
engineering right is the idea that it is
a high paying job 92k average right now
for software engineers in the US and the
other beautiful thing is that it
constantly shows up on the happiest
careers list right so if you look at the
past five years right you look at the
past five years every single year some
sort of software engineer some sort of
software developer has shown up on that
list and then the other beautiful thing
is that you don't need a degree to
become a software engineer so you're
telling me that there is a high-paying
happy career that you can learn for free
and you don't need a degree well
everyone should be running to it and a
lot of folks are saying is the market
oversaturated hell no now it's
oversaturated with folks that don't know
what they're
doing we have a 100% placement rate in
my at my nonprofit during the day in
terms of students that graduate our
program getting a job
100% we have more people trying to hire
our students than we have
students double
triple but here's what happened when
people found out that there was a high
paying happy career that you can learn
for free didn't require degree that
knew that right
now they could get into it we had a lot
of these programs pop up and a lot of
these programs predicated that the only
thing you needed to get a job was to
learn how to code well I'm here to tell
you that learning to code is not the
thing that will get you a
job
what what did he just say I was here to
learn how to
code learning to code let me get big
here just so people people don't get
lost here learning to code
will not get you the
job it's a small portion of
it it's a small portion of it but it's
not the only
thing what if I told you because this is
true half the
folks half the folks that got a job from
100 devs this last cohort half of
them did not have a technical
interview
let me say it again half of the
folks that got jobs did not have a
technical
interview so a coding boot camp that
just teaches you how to code is leading
you astray
people were like what how he found the
right
place
so when it comes to getting a
job coding is definitely something
that's going to help
you is definitely something that will
come up in a significant number of your
interviews but the
networking the building a rapport with
the individuals that have open jobs and
application
the way that you apply to
jobs has more impact these days than
just your raw coding
ability so we're going to spend a lot of
time on things that aren't just learning
how to
code this boot camp is going to teach
you more than that because that's not
the only thing that contributes to you
getting a job now the other wild thing
that happened is when this industry
propped up when people realized that you
could have a high-paying happy career
that you could learn for free with no
degree well a lot of boot camps popped
up that spit out
generic just generic
coders there are whole crops of boot
campers that have the
exact the exact like line by line
projects in their
portfolios like you could see whole like
if you go look at boot camps you could
see whole groups of individuals that
graduated that did not have a singular
line of code that was
different so no wonder people are saying
oh it must be saturated or or or there's
too many no there's a bunch of people
that have no idea what they're doing
that have all the same projects that
have all the exact same experience that
haven't tell their resume that haven't
put any work into networking that
haven't made connections in the industry
and they
smell they
smell they walk in the
room they can't even get in the room how
you going to hate from outside the club
you can't even get in they can't get in
because they smell there's a stench a
recruiter spend 6 seconds looking at
your resume and they know it's all
cap they know you can't code there's
there's there's nothing there's
nothing on your resume in your
experience on your LinkedIn that would
lead
that would lead to you actually being
successful on the
job and so right
now there's a window that's
open there is a window that is open
where you can learn to
code learn how the
network learn the things that you need
to differentiate yourself in the market
where you can get a high-paying happy
career that you can learn for free with
no
degree but I have no idea how long that
window will be open right now the window
is
open for a couple of reasons a lot of
folks say Leon why aren't like CS grads
taking all these jobs
well when you go to a four-year
University you are very
lucky if you have two classes that teach
web
development like that's like the best
program I've ever heard
of right you're going to spend more time
on compilers and CS Theory and all this
stuff that nobody wants to pay you for
they want you to build web applications
and you at best probably got one class
of that in
University so so at 100 devs we teach
the practical skills the things you
actually need to get a job and then I
task you once you're getting paid to
learn the
theory to go get the dusty ass books and
learn the theory but here we learn the
Practical stuff the stuff that people
actually want to pay you to do and then
once you get the job you fill in the
gaps don't do it the other way that's
one of the reasons why this window is
open
the other reason why this window is open
is because right now you can learn one
language that does it
all you can learn JavaScript use that on
the front end you can use that on the
back end you can use it to do everything
you need for your
job and you only have to learn one
thing if you go to a 4-year CS program
you probably never learned that
language like
what how is there one
language that you can use across the
whole stack and this language it makes
me mad I get angry I'm sorry I'm getting
I'm getting angry this language is
literally the most in demand
language let's get
big it is the most in demand language
and you're not teaching
it that's why the windows
open that's why the windows open there
are a lot of folks in the market that
don't have practical skills that don't
have anything that shows to an employer
that they know actually how to code and
they haven't put in the work to build
their Network so they can actually get
into the interview for the job that's
the biggest that's the hardest thing the
hardest thing is actually getting the
interview you go on
Reddit right you go on Reddit and you'll
read poost I apply to 500 jobs and I
haven't heard anything 500 jobs and I
haven't heard anything and I and I just
sit there and I'm
like
if you applied the 500 jobs and nobody
got back to
you it's because you
up you didn't do it
right you
smell you
smell your portfolio is busted your
resume is busted you don't have anything
that shows to him employer that you
actually know how to
code you got
got and you just clicked
apply
never
ever ever just click
apply if you ever just click apply it's
the same thing
it's the same thing as you printing out
your
resume and lighting it on fire actually
no you just clicking apply is worse than
you burning your resume let me tell you
why because if you printed out your
resume and lit it on fire there is a
small chance that that piece of paper
lit your curtains on fire your house
caught on fire thankfully the sprinkler
put out the fire right house didn't burn
down thankfully but the fire department
still had to come when the fire
department came there was somebody on
that like the fireman was like in your
room and they saw that you had vs code
like your text editor open and they go
oh wow you know how to code my brother's
cousin's Uncle works at this company
downtown and they've been looking for an
engineer for the past two months and
they haven't gotten like how about I I'm
sorry that your your curtain's caught on
fire why don't I connect you so maybe
you can get a job that is more likely to
happen and get you a job than you
getting a job just by clicking
apply
so there's a window that's open
there's a window that's open right now
where you can get a high-paying job that
is the happiest job like five years
running that will provide for yourself
and your
family that right now there is a
practical way for you to compete against
individuals coming out of fouryear Cs
programs where there's a practical way
for you to learn the things that are
actually in demand that companies
actually want and if you do it right you
can get a
job
now you're saying Leon it sounds
great right sounds
great but why doesn't everyone do
it why doesn't everyone do
it well here's the reason why not
everyone does
it learning to
code and putting in all the other work
that it takes to get the
job takes a really long time we call
this the Troth of
Sorrow many of folks have endeavored to
become software engineers and many of
them have failed trying to cross the
trough of
Sorrow here's where a lot of you are
right now you want to see where you're
at right now now a lot of you are like
right here you're on Udi
Hill right you keep buying those UD Demi
courses
you're you swipe that credit card like
ah boom you throw in the credit card at
the at the at the screen you're like oh
look at me now just bought a Java course
ah just bought a JavaScript course ah
like python course ah
right you never finished
one you bought a bunch of
them but you definitely didn't finish
one if you got if you got more than
three UD Demi courses that you've never
actually even started in your account
right now just just give me a thumbs up
in chat you can just you can just put up
you can put up or thumb you if you got
at least three that you've never even
started put up I got to put up too we
did this during office hours I'm guilty
I got it
too
boom there you go I put my own
up so we got to stop and we got to ask
ourselves why do we keep buying all
these
courses that we're never going to
do and haven't gotten us closer to our
goal and there's two big
reasons the first reason is it's very
easy to spend money and feel like you've
done
something right it's a very low
cognitive effort thing that makes you
feel like you're taking a good step
toward your
goals all right so a lot of people will
over and over again spend money right
getting got because it feels good they
feel like you're working towards
progress right the other reason why
people do this is because some YouTube
told them
to some YouTuber told you that you
needed to buy the
course to get the
job some YouTuber told you that if you
didn't spend that money you weren't
going to get the Fang
job somebody told you that you could get
a Fang job from their
course and unfortunately you got guys
that's okay around here we don't get got
we go get so you found the right
place people are saying what's Fang Fang
is like the big top tier companies
talking about Facebook Amazon Apple
Netflix Google
right if you come to me you say Leon I
want to go work at a Fang I don't know
how to code I've never coded in my life
but I want to work at
Fang don't let me be the way the person
that gets in the way of your dreams
but let me tell you a little bit of what
that sounds like that sounds like to me
you know you know Uncle Uncle Ray Ray
that like comes around every once in a
while and they tell you that story about
how they almost played for the Yankees
that's what it kind of sounds like they
never played baseball a day in their
life but they come and they tell you
that they're going to play for the
Yankees right it's the same thing as you
coming to me and saying Leon I I me and
my dad toss the football around I'm
going to go try cry out for the
Eagles okay there there is
a small chance that you will transition
from never having thrown a football to
going and playing for the
Eagles don't don't let me get in the way
of that
dream but I'm here to be a little bit
more
realistic I'm here to help you get a
job and I want you to keep your sights
lasered focused
on the
pleora the thousands of jobs that are so
much more easy to get into than shooting
for the Eagles or the
Yankees we can all go play in our wreck
league and that's what I'm talking about
I want you to all join a wreck League
company I want you to get paid good
money be
happy have time for the ones that you
love and for your hobbies and I want you
to be able to do that within 30
weeks so I'm not going to sell you on a
dream I'll leave that to the YouTuber
you love to watch I'm going to sell you
on something that's realistic that you
can accomplish that you can get done and
then once you are getting
paid once you are getting paid you got
that that cheddar coming
in then study your ass off and go get
that Fang job and I'll be there to
support you I sent 10 people to Fang
very
recently but let's get paid
first all right so let's get back to
this trough of Sorrow all of you are
kind of like right here right now and to
make it through the trough of
Sorrow you got to do a lot of stuff you
got to go through the
muck very quickly probably today if not
tomorrow or Thursday you're going to
find yourself kind of plummeting down UD
Demi
Hill and then you're going to have 20
weeks of being in the
muck and after those 20 weeks of in the
muck you're going to start to have some
Wiggles of false
hope these Wiggles of false hope is when
people like start responding to your
emails for jobs or when you get that
first really big interview
this is going to happen to most of you
you're going to get a really great
interview at a company that you'd be
really excited to
join and you're going to go into the
interview and it's not going to work out
that's just the truth that's the Wiggles
of false
hope we tell individuals that they have
to apply to
60 companies
60 and we know already that we don't
just click apply these these are 60
companies that we have networked our way
into where we're talking to a living
breathing human being at those
companies that's what I mean by 60
companies that we applied to about 10 of
those interviews are going to go
horrendously wrong like slap their mama
throw up all over them
bad
about 40 of them are going to go so so
and about 10 of them are going to go
amazing like could not have gone better
you did everything the it just went well
your best friend you're you're going to
their summer house the next weekend like
just amazingly
well and out of that you'll get two
offers step back here for a
second right you're you're going to go
through the muck of learning how to code
and then you're setting up for
60 real
applications not just clicking
apply all right so that's why people
don't go through it it's it's daunting
it can be anxiety
inducing but remember what I said
earlier today is not the day you don't
have to have all this figured out we're
going to give you the tools the
techniques the tricks the things that
you need to make it through this trough
of sorrow and on the days that it feels
the worst you have a community to fall
back
on community is the only way I've ever
seen folks truly make it through the
trough of
sorrow and after today you might say
Leon sounds great this isn't the
community for me and that's okay that's
okay but you need to find one you need
to find one that's going to help you get
unstuck when late at night things aren't
going well and you've been racking your
brain you should stop and go to sleep by
the way but you're going to need someone
some group of people that can help you
get
unstuck what we've been able to do in
the last cohort is build an amazing
Community folks that are going to help
you get through the muck through that
trough of sorrow and come out the other
end and there's a lot of folks here
right now that are
new but they want to help to when you
learn
something you're going to teach it to
those around you and in a week from now
when there's something that you don't
know guess what there's going to be
someone else to help you
everyone needs to know right now that
there is a cost to this program Leon
you're like there's no cost this it's
free it's no money yes you'll never pay
me
money but here's the real cost of this
program when you graduate when you get
that job the expectation is that you
turn around and you bring three more
with
you
that's it that's the real
cost you're going to get there you're
going to turn around you're going to
bring three more with you and I don't
mean I don't mean a lazy half ass bring
three with you I mean you're busting
your ass to answer people's questions
you're giving them
time I put a thousand hours into this
cohort last cohort a thousand think
about that 300 plus of them were just
live another 300 preparing and getting
everything going and then at least over
100 maybe 400 500 of 10one
time there are so many people in this
chat right now that I've spent hours on
the phone
with where I've picked up the phone to
talk to an employer to to Hype them up
to say they're the best person I've ever
interacted with
so the real cost
here is that when you get the job you
make it to the other side we go back to
the trasar when you make it to the
promised land you turn around and bring
three more that means you're going to
hold that window open a little bit
longer you're going to make sure your
people make it
through you're going to make sure that
they know what they're walking into when
they go into that interview you're going
to make sure
that they're
prepared you're going to make
sure that the people that helped you
along the way you're there to help when
it's
time so if you're not
ready for that type of
cost just Just Close Your Eyes just take
out the headphones it's okay you can
leave it's fine
this community is a
community I don't know how else to say
that any better you're signing up for a
community a community that wants to help
each other support each other and when
they make it to the promised land turn
around and bring more with them you
can't say I didn't warn you you can't
say I didn't tell you I'm making it very
clear that that's the cost of this
program and if that's not something
you're willing to sign up for that's
okay close your
eyes like click exit you're
good
now there are three other things that
are the real core things that help
people be successful in this journey
like without these three things you're
not making it to the promised land
you're not getting through the trough of
Sorrow I've been teaching people to code
for 10
years I've taught thousands upon
thousands people to code I've helped
hundreds get jobs and I've picked up
three key things that help folks make it
through the trough of sorrow and I'm
going to tell you about them when we
come back from our
break because around here we like to be
healthy we like to make sure we take
breaks at the top of the hour becoming a
software engineer is a marathon not a
Sprint we have to be doing stuff that
that enables us to remain healthy and be
able to get through these 30 weeks so if
you are able I'm going to bring up a
timer if you're able I want you to get
up and leave the
screen I want you for five minutes to
take an actual break to let your fingers
relax to hydrate to go and look out the
window let your eyes focus on something
that's not the
screen and then we'll be back in
five okay so you're going to take those
uh five minutes and when we come back
from the five minutes I got to say thank
you to a lot of folks uh thank you Greco
for the 10 gifted Subs there have been a
lot of people that have been in here
dropping Subs uh I don't want to break
up class to say thank you to everyone
but I will do that when we come back
from break so take five minutes and
we'll keep going after the five starting
now
and uh I'm going to take my break too be
right back
y'all
what's going on everybody I won't I
won't go into any more like slides or
anything we'll just chill going on
everybody you're a twitch new that's all
right it'll get easier we'll spend time
we got a long time
together you're excited for what's to
come me
too what's your over watch main Arisa
right
now mayor service it keeps cutting out
that's all right the vods will be
available uh as soon as class is
over any vets there are a lot of
veterans in this cohort uh we're going
to have a special channel for y'all um
definitely something I'm super
interested in supporting lots of amazing
programs out there for veterans uh I
taught a vets and Tech cohort at GA
which is uh vet and Tech is the the
person that started Craigslist created a
support group for for veterans and funs
courses and stuff it's pretty
cool how do you do your hair that's
always like the biggest we're going to
we we're going to do a whole class just
on my hair
prep OGX products shea moisture kind of
it you have 1.4 micro Leons hey there we
go
is class every day no it's every Tuesday
and Thursday at 6:30 p.m. eastern
time don't worry Jay how about the beard
I take way less care of my beard than I
should definitely gets dried out too
much uh do I need Twitter yes we're
going to talk about that when we come
back we we got we got to get into the
actual course and how it's going to be
set up but we're going to go over all
that stuff so don't
worry how is attendance I haven't looked
whoa
okay we ain't outside but we live let's
go 7K all right yeah we go for about
three
hours are the cats in the background
yours no they're not
mine just a
gift we outside let's
go are you married yes I have a
wonderful
wife top so far was 7,300 that's
wild what can we do to stay motivated oh
that's a good question it's about
discipline not motivation we'll talk
about that don't
worry all right folks come on back come
on
back hope you had a good
break make this a little bit smaller
come on back folks hope you're able to
rest a little bit hydrate a little
bit had a lot of folks in here earlier
with the the subs I just appreciate
everyone for that uh let's go ahead and
chill the music here a little bit so
folks know to come back uh we had diece
solution with 20 gifted Subs Danny
Thompson in the house with the 15 gifted
subs thank you so much for being here
deep fried penguin with the
10 have to figure out another way to say
thank you to everyone because it's it's
it's a lot I'll get better at it this is
this has been this has been uh the most
people we've definitely ever had in chat
so I promise I'll get better at as we go
through and like I said um never ever
feel like you have to do that that's
that all goes to the nonprofit I work at
during the day do I know Spanish I know
a little bit and I have been very much
like taking lessons so I have like a
tutor I've been meeting like twice a
week with my Tor I'm trying to get way
better at it my wife speaks
Spanish cool all right folks let's get
into this
again all righty so talked about
Community being the goal but I promised
you that there were three
things three things that my students
that I've noticed over the years are are
very good at uh that helps them right
that helps them get through the trough
of Storrow to learning how to code all
right and those three things are
managing frustration being consistent
and taking care of yourself now when I
used to teach classes in meat space
right where like students actually had
to come into the classroom you remember
those days that's wild uh students
actually had to come into the classroom
students would come in they would sit
down and within like the first few
minutes I knew whether or not they were
going to be
successful shrimp said repeat that I got
you shrimp I got you I said back when we
used to meet in person right people
would come they would sit down and
literally within 10 minutes I knew if
they were going to be successful or not
and I can tell you how I knew they were
going to be
successful it was how how they dealt
with
frustration there are two types of
individuals that are going to be on this
journey there going to be some types of
individuals that sit down to learn how
to code and think that learning how to
code or their lack of coding ability is
a reflection of their intelligence their
IQ all these things which are absolutely
not true your ability to code is a
reflection of your ability to put in
hard work to sit reading Dusty
documentation for hours on end to
struggle and fail over and over and over
again and then ultimately come out the
other side of the trough of Sorrow it
has nothing to do with where you started
I have seen folks from all walks of life
I've had individuals that have been
returning citizens and hadn't touched
the keyboard in five years the folks
that were caregivers it this does not
matter learning to code is not about raw
intelligence or IQ definitely those
things can help but it's more about how
you deal with
frustration there was a very famous
study that came out not too long ago
that looked at when did individuals lose
their ability to be fluent in a
language and for a while folks thought
that they lost their ability to become
fluent in a language like in the teens
like early teenage years and what they
found out was people don't really lose
the ability to become fluent in a
language they just get
older and when you get older you lose
the ability to manage your frustration
because when you're a kid and someone
says go do this thing go study you do
it right you do it right neuroplasticity
is thing it is it is but what this study
showed is that it's it's more this
idea that you
could eventually become fluent in the
language but you are now in charge of
your own life you decide when you go to
bed you decide when you wake up you
decide what to eat and when we start
doing that our ability to get more
frustrated is is present and that
frustration is what stops you from
learning and so there is a
mindset that my most successful students
have if you're ask me like who's the
most
successful the most successful students
I've had are the individuals that say
you know
what whatever Leon said today I did not
get and you know what the stuff that
Leon said
yesterday I didn't get that
either and the stuff a week ago is still
not clicking but I know tomorrow's my
day tomorrow this stuff will make sense
tomorrow I will have figured it out and
I will keep working until it
does two different kinds of
people and it comes down to you managing
your
frustration ADHD gang in the house uh so
for those that don't know uh I have
bipolar disorder and I also have very
severe attention issues uh that leads to
the next topic here
consistency when I first started to
learn how to code I had a very severe
problem with
consistency consistency is hands down
the biggest factor in your ability to
learn how to code and retain it going
into the future and let me tell you
why a lot of folks come to me and they
say hey Leon I want to learn how to code
I'm going to study 10 hours a
day they come to me they say Leon I'm
going to study 10 hours a
day no you're not you've never done that
before you've never studied that much
before and even if you did it wouldn't
be good studying so that's a
lie and what I'm here to tell you is
that you don't need to do 10 hours a day
you just need to be consistent every
day so class is about six hours a week
on Tuesdays and Thursdays and then
outside of class you should expect to
spend about
10 10 to 14 hours depending on how well
the week goes and the folks that mess up
or the folks that say I'm going to spend
10 hours on
Saturday
studying why do you think studying for
10 hours on Saturday is a bad
idea what do y'all
think they burn out exactly it's the
weekend I got to do now we outside
you know like can't be spent our
weekend's doing that you're all goofy
all
silly it's because you can't it's too
hard but here's the real thing maybe
some people can study those 10 hours but
next Saturday is actually the baby
shower and then two Saturdays from that
it's the the parents are coming to town
and so you skip that one
Saturday and then after you skip that
one Saturday you're behind and then once
you're
behind you just
stop right so instead of chunking huge
hours on time spans that you're probably
not going to hit we want to spread out
our learning through a period every day
and be consistent in that learning every
day one to two hours a day is plenty to
get a job within the 30-week time span
all right and that consistency every day
actually has a
scientific mechanism that we're going to
explore in a few minutes right so if you
want to learn how to code you got to
learn to manage your frustration which
is something you can do it's something
you can practice something you can
exercise you have to be consistent
you're committing to studying every day
not just one day a week one to two hours
and I know that's a big ass for a lot of
folks for some folks that's a huge ass
you got life you got responsibilities
you got things you got to do and so I
respect the hell out of folks that can
figure out those one to two hours a
day and then the last thing that I've
seen on this list of three things that
have helped my students be successful is
the ability to take care of
yourself most folks burn out
that's it most
folks lose that
endurance to keep
going they start off trying to do 10
hours a day and then within two weeks
they're too
tired they start off trying to do 10
hours a day and within a week their
fingers hurt their arms like literally
hurt you are way better off
getting that one to two hours
in right getting that one to two hours
in and then
sleeping eating right exercising a
little bit I'm a big boy but getting
that exercise in just a little bit I'm
not talking about like going to the gym
I'm talking about
walking you got to make sure your brain
is healthy if you want to learn this
skill do you all know like if you if
like chess Grand Master when they're in
tournaments how many calories do you
think a professional chess player Burns
just by playing chess in a
tournament how many calories do you
think oh people already know people read
the article or they've been around here
for a little
while professional chess players burn
6,000 calories in a tournament 6,000
calories in a tournament and they're
sitting there moving pieces around it's
because that cognitive effort I had to
look this I looked this up right before
class because I didn't believe it either
because I I've been I threw it out like
I got to be correct it's 6,000
calories that cognitive effort has a
real toll on your body so if you've
managed your frustration you set up your
life in a way that you can be consistent
and to set up your life in a way to be
consistent you might have to talk to
your partner you might have to talk to
your
family as Dr Eric Thomas said you called
me but you called me at the wrong time
right you might have to put things into
different places so that you can be
consistent and then if you manage to
have that privilege of the time to
actually study don't waste it by burning
out and not taking care of yourself
learning to
code is a marathon not a
Sprint
Princess Sparkle bomb said I believe
that I haven't done School in a decade
and this class is wearing me out it will
and so we got to be healthy we have to
know that we're going to take our time
and we're going to ease into things but
most
important is I've I'm going to lay out
what I think is the best path for you to
learn how to code the path that has
helped hundreds of my students get jobs
the path that I've have seen work for
folks time and time again that's helped
them to not burn out to actually finally
learn this and to get the soft skills
they need to get a job and I'm going to
ask for a little bit of trust and a
little bit of patience there's a lot of
you here way more than we would have
expected we're going to figure it
out right but if for some reason the
path I'm laying out is not the path for
you if it's not the path that makes
sense for you that's okay don't let your
dreams be dreams don't let some random
dude on the internet stop you from doing
what you want to do and accomplishing
what you want to accomplish just do
it do it just do it just do it so just
do it make your dreams come true
just
it all
right
so let's talk about the
course we're doing we're doing this
motion for the course right we're doing
this motion for the course everything
with time all right you don't have to
come in knowing how every little thing
works you don't have to come in with any
coding experience we're going to get
there together and we're going to take
our time we're going to ease in over
these first three weeks none of this
stuff is a hard requir M until we are 3
weeks in so I'm about to say some stuff
that I I'm going to ask you to do but
none of that's a hard requirement until
we make it right until we make it three
three three weeks in okay till we make
it three weeks in we're going to we're
going to go slow we're going to take our
time okay
now the materials that you need for
class right materials for your class are
always going to be on Discord uh if if
you're not in our Discord you can do
exclamation point
Discord and every day we have a channel
called the follow along materials
channel in that follow along materials
Channel you will find everything that
you need for the day there will be the
slides that I'm using right now there
will be the link to check in there will
be uh
motivational poems uh things that are
going to help you get through the class
so if you're not on
Discord right you want to make sure that
you are and that's just Leon the.com
Discord or you can explation point
Discord and it'll take you there all
right cool
now every class I am going to share a
tweet if you want to be in touring and
Hopper which we'll talk more about if
you want to be in either of those houses
liking and retweeting that tweet is
mandatory for everyone else I would love
if you did it but not mandatory uh I
asked you to do this for a few reasons
one I want more people to find out about
our community to find out that they
don't have to pay tens of thousands of
dollars to learn how to code and that
tweet helps more people find us and see
what we're doing and want to join
okay
now the other reason why I want you to
get used to checking in and using
Twitter is because it's going to be one
of the biggest Tools in our Arsenal to
get a
job okay I told you that learning to
code isn't
enough it's the networking that's going
to be one of the biggest impactors on
you getting a job Twitter is by and far
the best tool to network with other
Engineers okay so yes I'm asking you to
do it as a requirement of the program
but I'm also just trying to get you to
find other people on Twitter to work
with to interact with to network with so
that you can get the job that you
want
cool another requirement of the course
is that you network each and every
week you are going to network with three
individuals that are already in Tech
meaning that you're going to reach out
to them you're going to connect with
them at least three each week now a lot
of you might be freaking out be like Le
I have no idea how to
network right I have no idea how to to
network I have no idea how to interact
with people you might be saying I am the
most introvert of
introvert
right that's okay we're going to have
full classes on how to do this
appropriately and we're going to find
ways that work for everyone uh whether
you're the most extroverted or the most
introverted we're going to find a way
for you to network and build up those
connections of individuals that going to
help you get a
job right
because at the end of the
day at the end of the day it is not rly
your coding ability but the individuals
that you've connected with are going to
help you lock down these jobs remember
if you just click apply you might as
well light your resume on fire I'm going
to
also ask you right I'm also going to ask
you to have two coffee chats each week
which is where you sit down with someone
and have a longer form conversation
about their experience in Tech right how
do they get to where they are what are
the things that they're learning right
now what are the things they're doing
right and like I said right now we're
easing in everything none of these are
requirements until week three and we're
going to have full classes on how to do
this all right but if you want to
know how people consistently get bigger
and better jobs it's because they put
time in doing
this that's it they know how to code but
the real differentiator is their
Network there will be homework all right
after each class you'll have some
homework that homework will always be
due a week later so tonight you have
some reading and some watching to do
and that reading and watching will be
due next Tuesday so the stuff I assigned
tonight the stuff that's already on
Discord will be
due right will be
due a week later on
Tuesday at first you'll be submitting
stuff through Google forms and then once
we get further into the course and we
feel more comfortable with things like
the terminal we'll be using GitHub to
submit all of our projects and all of
our
homework all
right
cool can't find the Discord channel it's
the follow along materials
Channel
cool there's no like specialized channel
for it it's just the follow along
materials channel is where it'll be
listed cool we do not start with GitHub
GitHub is confusing as so is the
terminal so is G all those things are
just not stuff you need to start off
with like the ease into things we're
going to start actually from zero right
if you if you are starting from zero
you've probably never used the terminal
we're not going to start
there just doesn't make
sense we're going to ease into
it eventually once we have a command of
JavaScript I'm going to ask you to do a
coding challenge every single
day every single day that's right no
weekends every single day not yet though
not yet not until we get to
JavaScript but you're starting to see
how folks have been successful in this
program hopefully hopefully the the the
the the the it's becoming a little bit
more clear why folks were able to get
jobs right right he said Leon I came
here to learn how to code but I didn't
know it was going to look like this I
didn't know that you're going to be
asking me to spend six hours in
class be consistent studying at least
one to two hours a day networking with
three individuals each week having two
coffee chats each week doing a coding
challenge every single day homework on
top of all of
that right
now we go back back to the trough of
Sorrow you are
officially at the
peak the peak is for
those that have gone up the hill they've
mustered up the courage right to to come
and say I want to learn how to
code all right they've mustered up the
courage they've got into the top of the
hill and they looked over and when they
looked
over
they
saw a lot of material that they had to
work through they saw that they had to
be checking in they saw that they had be
doing networking each week three
individuals two coffee chats they saw
they'd be submitting homework they saw
they'd be doing a coding challenge every
single day in preparation for getting
that job and when they looked over that
Hill they had a
choice here are your two
choices right right the first choice is
you can go down that
Hill
screaming
screaming crying for your
mama
or you can be
Beyonce that's my options for you right
now if you are
here you can go down this hill screaming
and crying for your mama or you can be
Beyonce Beyonce's having
fun they realize it's going to be a
journey they're going to be ups and
downs and they're all equally
exhilarating you are going to feel lows
that you may not have felt in a long
time where things feel really dark
nothing makes
sense things aren't
clicking it sounds like brish is coming
out of my mouth but I promise you that
right after that dip is an exhilarating
ride
up and so you're going to give me 30
weeks and some of you are going to go
through these 30 weeks screaming and
crying for your mom that's okay I ain't
here to judge and some of you are going
to go through this like Beyonce you're
going to have
fun you're going to enjoy the process
process you're going to make lots of
friends and you're going to give your
all each and every day knowing because
you've managed your frustration that I
may not know it today I might not have
known it yesterday but I'm going to get
it
tomorrow be
beyon oh
no I gotta fix I always hit the end and
then that
happens all
right we've chosen to be Beyonce
hopefully
a big question that I keep seeing coming
up in in uh in chat and people ask me a
lot is Leon is there a
syllabus no there's no syllabus we are
learning full stack JavaScript you will
learn HTML CSS JavaScript node react and
mongodb now like Leon why no syllabus
why are you not giving me the full
outline of the course I'm going to tell
you why because if I give you the full
outline of the course a couple things
happen one there's some research that
came out of Harvard that shows that
people drop at the chapter end so
basically once the chapter's over that
gives you permission to stop I don't
want that to happen to you the other
reason why is because a lot of you don't
know it yet but you're code weenies I'm
a code weenie too it's
okay what that means is is if I gave you
the full syllabus you're going to charge
ahead you're going to do every single
thing that's on that list you're going
to be putting in 10hour days and a month
from now you're burnt out and we never
hear from you again so to save you from
yourself to save you from yourself
there's no
syllabus if you're like Leon I hate that
that's the dumbest thing I've ever heard
fine all my stuff is on YouTube bye
trust the process I've been doing this
for 10 years helped hundreds of folks
get jobs taught thousands of people to
code it'd be really silly really silly
for me to put a thousand hours into a
course and not do something that takes
me 10 minutes there's a reason behind
it
cool all
right if
you are joining you are agreeing to our
rules we've built a phenomenal
Community we've
helped dozens of folks get
jobs and I'm proudest that folks can get
help when they need it and the folks
that give their all to this community
and so I am protective of this
community folks that are wilding in chat
I see you I'm coming coming for you I'm
coming for you you're going to be banned
I'm going to go through this chat with a
fine tooth comb and I'm banning all
y'all I'm going to love every second of
it right so if you want to join this
community you're agreeing to our rules
when you join our Discord you agree to
some rules I'm going to read them again
because I want you to be very clear what
these rules
are
all right so the quick the quick rundown
and this is specifically here and on
Discord uh no non-safe for work stuff
especially on the Discord we're here to
learn how to code no one's here to find
the love of their life we're here to
learn how to code and get phenomenal
jobs no illegal discussion this includes
hacking piracy stuff like that you want
to sell the seven C's on your own that's
okay don't do it it here on
Discord uh no ban evading if you switch
your IP stuff like that we're going to
find it anyway you're just making more
work for us but we're going to ban you
anyway no discrimination be very clear
on this this includes using racist terms
slang sexist or ableist terms making
others feel bad for their race gender
sexuality or
disability if you can't be a good human
being get the out this isn't for
you if you can't be a decent kind caring
person leave please just do us all a
favor because eventually you're going to
get banned anyway just leave right now
please you're you're doing myself and
our moderators a huge service by just
leaving
now
cool no advertising don't spam stuff
here in chat don't spam stuff on Discord
um so on our Discord don't post your
YouTube your Twitch your other discords
uh your social media we have a
self-promo channel that that stuff can
go in um but specifically this includes
private study groups and other things
that split the
community right I'm not putting a
thousand hours into this
cohort right for folks to run a muck and
ruin it for
others we keep our spaces moderated for
a
reason if you try to lead people to
another space that is not moderated by
our amazing team of volunteer moderators
that's a problem because we've had that
problem where folks break off a little
bit they still try to be involved but
goes sideways and we can't be there
to moderate so if you're sharing other
communities on our Discord you're
sharing other private study groups it's
just a ban we we want to make sure that
the community stays together that we're
able to protect everyone that we're able
to create a safe learning environment
and we can't do
that
cool don't ignore your warnings or mutes
we're nice people we're going to warn
you we're probably going to kick you if
you do something weird um but we're
going to tell you
why and then one thing that I really
want you to take the heart right there
some other stuff here no abuse no toxic
Behavior no spam um but there's one
thing I want you to really live by if
you're going to be a part of this
community
please before you type anything or say
anything in our Discord voice channels
ask yourself one very important thing is
that the
nicest kindest thing right that you
could type in that moment that you can
say in that moment let me say it again
let me get big here real
quick before you type anything on
Discord before you type anything in this
chat is that the nicest kindest thing
that you could say in that
moment if it is not don't say it or get
the out I don't understand why this
is such a hard problem for a lot of
people but it is this is some of you are
in this in this in this right here with
us right now and this will be the
hardest thing you've ever done in your
life but if you want to be a part of
this community that's the
cost before you type anything before you
say anything in our voice
channels is that the kindest most
helpful thing that you could do in that
moment if it is not don't do it and if
you do do it
bye-bye we didn't bust our asses over
the past year to build a wonderful
Community for that not to
continue cool be a decent person I got
it
exactly myself and our moderators are
going to hold you to
it
now tech for a lot of folks is not not a
welcoming
space there are going to be a lot of
Gatekeepers there going to be a lot of
people that tell you no we don't need
that in our own
Community we don't need that coming from
our own
people you are going to be ahead of
someone at some point in this cohort and
you're going to be behind someone at
some point in this cohort we all have
bad days we all have responsibilities
outside of
learning that's okay when somebody asks
a question don't be a jerk answer their
question and do it with
kindness when someone misses something
in
class right when someone misses
something in class don't make fun of
them for missing something in class if
they don't understand something make
sure they understand
it if you can't agree to be the type of
person that puts helping others and
being kind above everything else this is
not the community for you go to stack
Overflow find some other Discord
group and you're like Le you spend a lot
of time on this yes damn right I'm
spending a lot of time on this very
specific
point we have a wonderful community in
our Discord That Grew by 10 ,000 people
in a
week I
refuse to have that Community change
into something that it is not I will go
through and delete all of y'all I'll
just I'll just go back I'll go back 10
days cut it all and bye-bye like it just
just gone I'll delete every single one
of y'all I don't care because what we
built is special it does not exist
anywhere else online
it just doesn't I've been around the
block I've tried to learn a lot of
languages and I've have been met with
hate I've been met with disrespect I've
been met with people that don't give a
that's not
us that's not a 100
devs that's not learn with Lon and if
you can't get that through your brain
and commit to it get the out I'm
going to give you a second I'm going to
stop talking I'm put the music on go
ahead go
please put the music on I'm giving him a
second hold on sometimes it's hard some
people just close their eyes they forget
they got to click the button it's it's
the it's the little X you click that and
you're gone
cool you're all here so we're agreeing
we're agreeing to these rules we're
agreeing to be kind and positive first
we're agreeing to to to see the best in
each
other um my executive director at
resilient coders has a
brilliant line like a few lines I'm just
going to read them because they're
they're brilliant and it's the thing I
want you to keep in your brain and the
thing that they always tell our students
and I'm going to tell you right now this
is Dell for the folks that know be kind
to one another be the type of person who
stays positive and gives people the
benefit of the doubt see the best in
people Embrace diversity of backgrounds
of perspective of things we can choose
and those that we can't accept your own
failures and those of your peers as an
important part of the
process exactly be
Beyonce all right now I've said it I'm
going to keep saying this if you don't
like what I'm saying right now like go
like it's going to keep coming up
because I refuse to build a community
that's just like everything else in Tech
that's not
us all right
we've laid the groundwork here we've
laid the groundwork
here let's get
into learning how to learn now a lot of
folks don't make it through that trough
of
Sorrow not through any fault of their
own they don't make it through the
trough of Sorrow because they might not
have ever
really
learned how to learn you're already
putting the wise in
chat right they might not have actually
ever really learned how to learn the
things we're about to talk about are
just absolutely criminal to me that they
are not
taught in every school every University
these things are the things that are
going to help you get through these next
30 weeks and so just real quick to lay
lay some groundw work
here you're already doing it this is
hilarious have you
ever reread a chapter multiple times
while you're trying to learn something
if just reread a chapter multiple times
type yes everybody did wise too too
early type yes I want I want some effort
here give me a full yes if you've ever
reread a chapter multiple times while
trying to learn something I love the
first time viewer if come on you got to
get interactive with you're not going to
make it these 30 weeks if you're not
typing in chat if you have the means
to all right next question have you
ever taken copious notes like you wrote
a lot of notes as you were trying to
learn
something give me a yes in
chat have you been taking notes tonight
put a yes in chat we haven't really
gotten to any content yet if you have
you taken
some have you ever highlighted like you
wrote all those notes and you spent a
lot of time like highlighting and going
through them highlighting them can't
tell you how many highlighters I went
through all right let me blow your mind
here for a
second all of those things
rereading taking notes and highlighting
they do nothing nothing thing to help
you
learn like Liam that's what I've always
done I've always taken lots of notes and
highlighted my ass off and reread
bazillion
times doesn't
work it wasn't you seventh grade English
class it wasn't you you just didn't know
how to study you're like wait a minute
Excuse me yes they don't work about to
tell you why they don't work and I'm
going to show you what does
work
okay what if
there were two strategies I can give you
two strategies right now what if there
were two strategies that enabled you to
learn stuff
faster more
efficiently and forever the rereading
the highlighting and taking notes that
ain't it but there are two things you
can do that we're going to learn right
now that are going to help you to learn
stuff faster more efficiently and
forever and those two things are active
recall and spaced repetition now you're
going to have two videos to listen to
for homework that go way deeper into
these two topics because they are so
important literally when I teach this is
the first thing I don't care what topic
I am teaching I don't care where I'm
teaching at these are the first two
things I'm telling you I teach at the
Harvard Business School maybe like once
every year twice a year and at Harvard
Business School I open with these two
things because it is criminal that we
are never taught these things it it is
absolutely wild that I made it through
my entire educational Journey without
knowing these two
things all right active recall here's a
chart this comes from Ali abdal they
have an amazing video that's actually
your homework that walks through a
process called active recall all active
recall is is when you are done reading
something you recall the things that you
just
read now I have attention issues here's
a here is a very common thing that
happens because I have attention issues
I will read through a chapter and it's
as though I like teleported it's like
I'm at the end of the chapter and I'm
like what just happened cuz for the past
five minutes I've been flipping pages I
definitely my my eyes have been moving
but I have no idea what I just
read
right it took me until like 10 years ago
like adulthood to know that like other
people did that and it's because we
never were taught actually how to read
appropriately when it comes to studying
so if your mind's blown let me tell you
what
helps actively
recalling when you get to the end of a
paragraph
stop and recall to yourself what you
just
learned if you have attention issues
you're going to be stopping more
frequently in the beginning if you don't
some folks can get to the end of like a
page or some folks can even get to the
end of the chapter but the idea is when
you're done learning something new you
talk to yourself say it out loud the
things you just learned uh you all saw
Bob during the break me and Bob have
whole last
conversations right where I am telling
them all about the stuff I'm learning
all about the weird things that are
going on in my code and if Bob has his
headphones on as he does right now I
talk to my duck it's chroma out so you
can't really see it but I have a duck
that I talk
to Bob was The Mannequin that was
sitting on my chair when I left I talked
to my duck some days me and Bob were on
the outs and I talk to my duck when I am
learning something new I stop every like
chunk of text like every paragraph of
text I stop and I say to my duck what I
just learned and and at the end I recall
everything I learned in that
chapter and here's why here's why there
was a study that was done where they
gave a group of students four different
groups of students one chapter of I
think it was like a biology textbook I
forget I doll will bring it up in the
video one chapter let's say of a biology
textbook to
read one group read it once so here is
the group that read the chapter
once here's the group that read the
chapter four times four times here is
the group that read it and then did like
a spider map like they did some other
things that like got them like actively
into learning and then here is the
group that read it
once and recalled the things that they
just learned
now let's say this one more time let me
let let me let me let let me let me let
me just let me let me just bring this
down a little bit
here this
group read it
four
times they read the chapter four
times this
group read it once and did
better
if you're not mad right now you should
be this group read it four freaking
times this group read it once and then
just talked out loud to themselves about
what they just learned and they did
better
I don't know which one of my teachers
want to step up but somebody's catching
hands
how
how can there be a
way how can there be a way where you do
a fourth of the
work but do
better
that's active
recall right that's what active recall
can do a fourth of the
work but still do better so you bet
after you learn something at a 100 devs
the thing you should be doing is
recalling when you are done class
tonight when this stream ends we do a
raid but when when that raid is
done right when that raid is done you
need to
stop and
recall the things that you just
learned right now something that people
do is they like to take
notes here's how I twist
notes we'll talk about the rate at the
end don't worry about it for right now
here's how we do notes don't take
notes take
questions don't take notes take
questions as you're learning something
write down a question right what is a
study practice that can enable me to do
a quarter of the work but get better
results because at the end of
class right at the end of class you go
back through your question s and your
questions are your active
recall so don't take notes who has that
emote the the Great British Bake Off
emote it was hilarious take questions
and then at the end of your lecture quiz
yourself by going through your questions
cool that's active Recall
now the sad thing is
if you put in the work even to actively
recall we have something called the
forgetting
curve right we have the forgetting curve
let me take a sip here thank you thank
you uh
Memphis we have something called the
forgetting
curve now this was a study of one so
it's like not the best research uh but
it is a something that's been repeated
and you can actually see it within
yourself as well what this person did is
every day they would
memorize a thre digigit like a threel
combo like three just three letters and
then they would quiz themselves right
they would quiz themselves 20 minutes
after an hour after at all the way down
to 31 days after and what they
found is that that threel
combination within 20
minutes there was like a 40% chance they
forgot
it let's say that
again let's say that
again with just in 20
minutes there is like a 40% chance that
whoop in one ear out the
other
so if you are trying to learn how to
code
guess what software engineering is a
cumulative career meaning that you have
to remember the stuff that you've done
in the past so you can build upon it and
build up your knowledge over
time even if you put in all the work you
do all your active recall by the end of
31 days there's like an 80% chance
exactly poof
gone
gone you learned it you forgot it and
you're
gone right and
so a lot of people put a lot of time
into these tutorials they put a lot of
time into learning how to code only for
two months later to remember a damn
thing I can't tell you how many
tutorials I've done that just a few
weeks later I would would have to
restart the whole
tutorial and that contributes to being
in the trough of Sorrow cuz people just
don't realize that one they were taking
notes the whole time they were
highlighting their asses off I can't
tell you how many notebooks I have full
of stuff that I took notes on and
highlighted that I will never ever
remember so active recall helps you
learn the material but we know as humans
we have this forgetting curve and when
we come back from break I'm going to
teach you or show you how you can never
forget anything that we learn together
or anything that you learn in the future
forever there's a very simple tool that
you can put into place that will enable
you to reap the benefits of your hard
work and not forget the code that you
learn so we're at the top of the hour
and as you know we like to be healthy
around here we take a break at the top
of every hour it's a marathon not a
Sprint we're going to take care of
ourselves and so let me pull up the
timer
here please if you are
able get up get away from your
chair walk around if you're
able grab some water hydrate do some
light stretching let your eyes focus on
something right let your eyes focus on
something that's not your
screen because we're in this for the
long haul all right we start the timer
here we put on the tunes and I will see
you all in five minutes because I'm
going to take a break
too
I'll give you Bob so you're not lonely
TN five
folks we don't get got we go
get
yo not back yet going to chill until the
timer's
over what are mini Leons for you can use
your channel points to unlock a bunch of
stuff from like silly stuff that happens
during stream or eventually uh like
getting resume reviews and stuff like
that was that a Manu scarf
yep proo thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
what's my favorite Pokemon
typing um grass cuz I like Bulbasaur I
don't know it's not the competitive
answer but it's still my favorite leech
seed all the fun stuff that comes along
with
it I don't know what the starters are
going to be in the
Legends
Charmander Psyduck was the best Abra was
the best in in Pokemon Blue just cuz you
could if you got Alakazam or whatever
the way to get Al gazam was like it was
over it was a
wrap Leaf blade
exactly favorite anime Attack on
Titan I'm I'm I'm not like deep in the
anime though actually I'm going to say
cowboy bbop cuz I'm an old
head what's the blue circle for I just
didn't take it off
do you play OverWatch with your students
quite a few yeah we have a game together
Channel definitely down to play some
OverWatch or some fun
stuff favorite superhero
Batman did I get the Pearl Diamond
remake of
course I play Apex I played it once or
twice but never really got into
it favorite video game definitely
Pokemon I like Pokemon X and Y I think
I'm a little weird in that regards but
that was the only gen where you really
felt like you were like a real trainer
cuz you could go from like meeting
someone in game to them being on your
like friends list with video like with
sry not video with voice chat so like
really felt like you were actually a
Pokemon trainer that could play with
folks from anywhere around the world and
then they got scared of voice chat in
Pokemon games probably for good reason
and got rid of
it all right folks come on come on back
come on back hope you had a good break
hope you're able to stretch relax a
little bit grab some water let's get
this all
right
so
we before we took our
break we talked about this idea of
active recall being the thing that
actually helps you learn right like that
the idea of actively recalling the
things that you just learned is the tool
to use as you are learning material and
we talked about probably not taking
notes but taking questions so that at
the end of the night or at the end of
your studying session you can go back
and recall the things that you just
learned all right now the forgetting
curve is the devil at play here
because even if you do your active
recall let me chill the music here even
if you do your active recall there's a
good chance that you forget the
material right you forget the material
and so I promise you when we came back
to tell you how to flatten or get rid of
this forgetting curve and the way that
we get rid of the forgetting curve or we
flatten it is with
repetition okay now
what happens the very first time that we
learn something right the very first
time we learn something by the end of
three days there's a nonzero chance that
we've forgotten it right like we we
we've gotten to like a 40% chance that
we've just like forgotten it right but
if we were to review that
material right just
once we push our 60% memory retention
ention from 3 days to S let's think
about this if you just reviewed your
material right if you just reviewed your
material
once you flattened your forgetting curve
by a whole
week if you were to review it three
times right that flattens out the
forgetting curve even further and with
enough with enough
repetition Nick hey what's going on
thank you with
enough with enough
repetition with enough repetition that
forgetting curve becomes flat and we
just don't forget
stuff we just don't forget stuff right
and so if you're going to come here and
you're going to put in all the work
you're going to put in all the hours all
right Bu The Rock song coming on right
if you're going to put in the work
you're going to put in the hours you're
going to put in all this time to learn
stuff you owe it to yourself to do the
strategy that's going to make sure you
don't forget
it briefcase said well what constitutes
reviewing we're going to use a tool
called space repetition I got
you what space repetition means is that
we are going to space out our repetition
what that means is we're going to see
the same material over and over again
right the same things that we learned
we're going to make sure we see them in
some formulaic algorithmic way we're
going to see them over and over again
and just by that idea of repetition we
make sure we don't forget stuff right so
here is on a scale of like if you're
going to remember it or not right on a
scale if you're going to remember or not
if you just learn something
once right there's a a good chance that
you just forget
it if you recall that information once
look at this just literally recalling
once look at what your percentage jumps
to you jump over
20% just by recalling once that means if
you took questions during our lecture
and after
lecture right after
lecture you just review the things that
we learned earned your retention jumps
20% one one one one recall 20% so that's
why active recall
works you just do it once you got like
20% more chance of remembering something
and then if you repeat it multiple times
your ability to remember things goes up
and up and up and up and up and up and
up and up now here's the really
interesting
thing here is space
repetition and here is repetition in
Mass this repetition in mass is when you
take Saturday to study over and over and
over
again so that that's the people that
want to put 10 10 hours in on a on a
Saturday right where you just sit there
all Saturday repeating stuff
right it literally look look here is I
swear is this lower hold
on how is that
possible how is that right here is you
you repeating a bunch of times in one
session versus recalling once right so
so this makes sense this makes sense let
me let me explain here and Ali abdal is
going to explain it way better than I
can right in in a full video for you but
here's the idea let's say I learned
something and in that same session right
in that same session I repeat it to
myself a 100 times I'm not going to say
100 but let's say I repeat to myself a
bunch of times so there's no recalling
it's just that one session I just do it
a bunch of times right that is worse
than learning something and then
recalling it once at a later time
right and then here is if you space out
your
repetition so you can see how
significantly important it is to space
out your repetition and not just have a
day where you study you have to do this
every single
day here's the science you don't take my
word for it Ali abdal is the the the
master of this and they're going to
guide you through it through these two
videos that I've shared now you're
saying Leon space repetition sounds
amazing I can flatten my forgetting
curve never forget something how the
heck do I do that well we do it with
anky anky is a free
tool anky is flash cards with an
algorithm behind
them
that's all it is it's flash cards with
an algorithm behind them if you've ever
used flash cards great you were getting
some recall in but it wasn't good enough
because there's no algorithm behind it
what anky does is it does the space
repetition for you you review a card and
then if you get the answer right it's
going to show you that card in two days
if you get it right again it's going to
show it to you in a week to get it right
again it's going to show you in a month
I have some cards that I won't see until
I'm like 7 years old right because once
you review the material enough your
forgetting curve is flat you just won't
forget that stuff
anymore all right
so we're going to use anky anky is
completely free do not pay money for
anky remember I'm never going to give
you anything that you have to pay for it
is completely free on Windows Mac OS
Linux G new Linux uh it it's completely
free on Android and in on the web if you
have IOS the app is
$25 do not pay for the IOS app just use
your web
browser right you can use the anky web
which I have conveniently linked for you
right here you can do all the stuff in
the
browser I I create all my cards on Mac
OS and I review them on an Android
phone right I highly recommend that you
only create your cards in one location
and then you review them wherever you
want but if you're like Leon that sounds
amazing wonderful we're going to have a
whole kind of like class on how to use
anky better right but as the co-work
goes on and we're starting to actually
learn more and more material an is going
to become your best friend anky is
something that you're going to use every
single day all right so I got two
questions for you I just gave you the
cheat codes to learning right active
recall space repetition I don't know why
it's not on the front page of every
textbook but this is how you actually
learn things so now I'm going to ask you
a very important question why should you
create your own anky cards and not use
someone else's throw it in chat give me
some ideas
here why should you create your own
cards and not use someone else's
exactly the simple Act of creating your
own cards is an active recall
session so by creating your own cards
you get a full repetition of active
recall in and it's going to be the
things that you actually learn that
you're recalling that that cognitive
effort that you put into learn pays off
when you use your own cards
this is also why you should never use
somebody else's notes or somebody else's
questions if you're using somebody
else's notes or questions you didn't get
your own active recall in and it's
something you have to get better at
remember software engineering is a
cumulative career it's something you're
going to be doing for the rest of your
working days and so you have to get good
at using these tools and strategies you
are all going to leave this program and
join a company and on day one they are
going to use a tool and a technology
that we have not learned together and
you're going to have to learn it on your
own so you better be good at creating
your own anky cards taking your own
questions getting your active recall in
feeling comfortable with space
repetition because you're going to have
to do this every single day for the rest
of your
life cool next question question for you
I can see why tutorials can be a trapped
exactly tutorials are a trap because a
lot of times it's low cognitive effort
reading highlighting notet taking all
low cognitive effort when we do low
cognitive effort tasks the the
connections in our brain don't form the
same way when we do high effort tasks
active recall space repetition are these
high effort tasks that actually Force
the Connections in your brain to
solidify cool next question for
you why should you use anky every
day high effort exactly it's spaced
repetition every day right it's space
repetition and exactly
consistency right we said the three
things that I noticed in my students
that were successful were they manag
their frustration they were consistent
right they were consistent and they took
care of themselves well using anky every
day builds that consistency it makes
sure your forgetting curve is flattened
it makes sure you don't forget the
things that you did it's high cognitive
effort you're forming those connections
in your
brain and it works it just works so if
you're here and you're saying to
yourself Leon I was never successful at
learning how to code
before but you didn't use active recall
and you didn't use space repetition
that's
why the folks that do active recall and
space repetition and take care of
themselves they learn how to code a lot
of people say Leon I was never
successful in
school because you didn't know how to
learn they don't teach this
I wasn't good at math because you
didn't know how to
learn now you do you're going to put it
into practice and I guarantee you if
you've ever said those things to
yourself before things change once you
start putting these two things into
practice said how long is class uh 3
hours we always go 3
hours get your refunds folks
FKS if he went to University he didn't
teach
this all right now the fun stuff is that
there are some other tools and
techniques that are going to be really
helpful as well these are the big ones
like if you just do these two you're
good life changed you'll learn and not
forget stuff heck you could be like Leon
I hate you your voice sounds annoying
I'm going to leave that's okay make sure
you do these two things with your next
tutorial cuz you're going to actually
learn more just do that please that's
all I ask of you this is where you stop
with us cool make sure you use these two
things going forwards now the beautiful
thing is that there are other tools and
tips and tricks that are going to help
you be successful as well and so your
first big set of homework is to go
through Dr Barbara Oakley's course
called learning how to learn uh they
have broken down all the science behind
how adult and specifically adults learn
and they're going to give you all the
tips and strategies you need to continue
we've covered the two big ones but that
course is going to give you the rest now
like I said a lot of folks come to
learning how to code with all these
preconceptions about how they
learn there are no visual
Learners there are no uh kinesthetic I
got to touch things learners it's all
made up it's not real it really it just
it's not a real thing it's the things we
tell ourselves to get over the fact that
we don't have good study habits and it's
not our fault we never learn this stuff
right it's not true you can look it up
don't take my word for it look it up
you're like L I've been a visual learner
my whole life no you got got that's
something somebody told you 10 years ago
when you were struggling in school to
make you feel better but it's not true
you need real study habits active
recall spaced repetition are real study
tips that are going to help you learn
the things that you
learn
cool deep breath everybody I no this a
lot especially if you haven't been in a
learning environment for a while three
hours can be a bit but uh I appreciate
you and I thank you for putting in the
cognitive effort for put putting in the
active recall for putting in the space
repetition and for being here right
now I can't tell you and you can see
them how many folks out there want to
learn how to code in the new
year right how many folks want to learn
how to code in the new year but how many
of them are not going to put in the high
cognitive effort tasks they're going to
keep buying courses they're going to
keep taking they're going to do all
these things that are not going to
actually help them to learn so now you
know what you got to do it's hard it's
not easy but if you decide to give up
your nights or your weekends or time
away from the ones that you love I
respect the H out of you and let's get
it we're going to get the
bag all
right got a little bit more than a half
an hour a little more than a half
hour and we're going to start off by
learning what the heck the internet is
and then hopefully just a smidge of HTML
I don't think we're going to go over
tonight I think we'll be able to hit
exactly the three hours um but we're
going to this will be the first thing
that we learn
now I kind of mentioned this at the
beginning but I just want to be really
clear before we get into like the big
topic we're going to learn
tonight this is a jobs program I know it
says like free coding boot camp free
software engineering program but this
this is a jobs program the idea is for
you to get a job okay that that's the
goal we're we're covering way more than
just coding to help you get the job and
what I really want to click is that for
a lot of folks learning the code can be
a lot of
things I'm a I grew up loving puzzles
you give me a hard challenge I'm about
it I'm going to do it I'm going to have
fun with it I'm going to love it so for
some folks coding can be a way of like
getting daily challenges that they work
through for some folks they love to code
because it could be creative you can
bring things to life it's like playing
Minecraft on like super energy pills
right you can you can think something
and build it and people around the world
can play with it and enjoy it and then
for some folks it's about making
money I started off my story telling you
you the reason I did this and the reason
I got into it is to get the money
there's no shame in
that make your money that's why I'm here
and that's why I think a lot of you are
here too I hope that in the process of
making that money you start to enjoy the
things that you're doing as well right
you start to see the beauty and how the
internet works you start to see the
beauty in HTML you start to see the
creative side where you can build things
but let's not front and pretend that
that's why most of us are
here
cool I'm a bag Chaser me too all right
so you all hear to be software Engineers
but the focus of
this boot camp is web development
remember we said a software engineer
could write code that works in a lot of
different places the code that we're
going to write works in the browser like
Chrome Firefox Safari the things that
you would normally use to like access
websites and web applications that's
what we're here to learn how to build we
will be software Engineers we're going
to have software engineering
fundamentals we're going to know our
data structures our algorithms we're
going to know our tooling and support
we're going to know a little bit of math
behind all that stuff and our focus our
specialty will be full stack web
development so a lot of have you signed
up for becoming full stack web
developers without maybe knowing what a
full stack web developer really does
we're going to solve that today that's
what we're going to get into now before
we jump into
it what the heck is the web or the
internet let's let's let's separate the
web from the internet there's actually
two different things what's the internet
you're all here to become web developers
to build things that exist on top of the
internet what the heck is the internet
and participation in this class you can
say whatever the heck you want you could
say Beyonce's Network yes you could say
Beyonce's Network and that counts you
could say cats that counts cat videos
that counts I want every single person
that's still awake that's still here to
throw into chat what the heck they think
the internet is I want to see a bunch of
like firsttime typers this is your
chance wires I love
wires networking computers I love it an
addiction yes Community yes memes yes
the Matrix yes come on give it to me
information
yes man I can tell a lot of people
watched
like like early 2000s NBC the
information Super
Highway all right I see a lot of people
saying a wire uh it means that you
probably snuck ahead and watched my
video uh but yeah we're going to start
off with that idea of a wire so let me
go to whiteboard here let's start off
with an idea of a
wire
now on this
wire we're going to have two different
kinds of
computers we're going to have client
side
devices and we're going to have
servers cool so we're going to have a
wire and we're going to have two
different kinds of computers on this
wire now client side devices are the
computers that we use to consume things
that go across the internet so client
side devices might be like your phone
your laptop a tablet a
desktop whatever you're using to consume
that content is your client side device
whatever you're using to watch me right
now that's a client side
device fold said what's with all the
nuns all right I'll I'll explain what
the nuns are the nuns are an emote that
you get on this channel uh you can get
emotes from subbing or from just using
your channel points because you never
need anything you never need to sub for
anything like it just doesn't do
anything um but the nuns are an emote
that we have
because well my mom was the best uh my
mom always found free stuff for me to do
all the time and uh it didn't matter
what it was if there was a raffle if
there was something we got it all right
and so I remember I got to go to Six
Flags I got to ride I think it was
called the Medusa like eight times in a
row two hours before the the Six Flags
opened up because my mom filled out a
form at Wendy's and we won well my mom
found out that that there was a free art
class every Saturday morning run by
nuns and so uh every Saturday guess
where I got dropped off to hang out with
the nuns and learn how to draw so my
drawing as you can see is not that great
so you can't blame me you got to blame
the nuns go to Philly find you some nuns
and say why can't Leon draw better it's
not me it's them so that's where the
nuns come from all right we got two
different kinds
devices
julo I love that name jundo thank you
for the five gifted
Subs uh we we have two different kinds
of devices on this wire that is the
internet client side devices that we use
to consume and then other types of
computers out there on this wire called
a server
now take a wild guess as to why we call
this computer a server
why do we call it a server what do you
think that computer does on the
internet it serves exactly it's called a
server because it
serves and what it does is it serves up
different kinds of content a server will
serve
up a bunch of different things
HTML
SS JavaScript these are all languages
that we're going to learn together but
when we are on our client side
device we can make
requests those requests leave our client
side devices and find themselves all the
way at a
server that server can hear that request
and respond with something that is the
backbone of the internet this idea that
we have some devices that can make
requests and some that can respond with
stuff now let's step back a
second Rob thank you for the hydration
let's step back a
second if I asked you to open a Word
document what program would you use
right what program would you use to open
a Word document
not trying to trick you here yeah you
probably use like Microsoft Word right
you might have another program that
opens it but like Microsoft Word right
what if I asked you and throw this in
chat what if I had a PDF what program
could you use to open a
PDF Adobe maybe preview if you're on a
Mac right but Adobe right so we have
this idea that like we have these
programs that can run on our client side
devices and these programs are really
good at opening certain types of files
word can open Word documents
Adobe can open up PDFs well running on
our client side devices we often have a
program called
a
browser and that browser is really good
and when I say browser I mean like
Firefox Chrome Internet Explorer these
browsers are really good at opening
certain types of files specifically HTML
CSS and JavaScript files they can open
those files and display what you are
seeing on your
screen right so often what we will do is
we will be on our client side devices we
will be using a program called a browser
and from this browser we are able to
make requests to a
server that server is just another
computer out there on the internet that
can hear that request and has some code
that tells it what to do right I like to
think of this as like a
restaurant right the client side is like
you sitting at your table
and the back end or the server is like
the kitchen from your table you can make
requests to the kitchen and the kitchen
will send you back
food right you don't really care too
much about what's happening in the
kitchen you really kind of just care
that they give you the food well this is
the exact same thing that's happening on
the internet you are sitting in the in
the in the booth making requests on your
client side the device those requests go
to some server or kitchen and you get
stuff back now the beautiful thing is
that our client side devices our
desktops our phones our tablets all have
that program called a browser and the
browser can run the files that are being
sent back from the server so when we get
food back from the kitchen we are able
to eat it but maybe there are some
things that we couldn't eat well a
server could work the same way a server
could send you a file that the browser
has no idea what to do with and it just
wouldn't know what to do and it wouldn't
run it but when we send to the browser
HTML CSS JavaScript it knows what to do
with that
stuff cool now let's do an example let's
pretend that we are going to order from
dominoes uh I love using this example
because I am actually no longer allowed
to order food from Domino's so we are
going to pretend uh my wife is just
across the hall from me like they're on
the other side of this wall I ain't
trying to get got uh so we're going to
pretend okay we're going to pretend that
we're going to order food from
Domino's everyone's saying why I'll tell
you why all right here's why I a grown
man am no longer allowed to order
dominoes when when you are walking down
the street and the Domino's delivery
person pulls their like they're driving
past you they pull over they get out
their car they walk up to you they say
hey Leon how's it going they grip you up
and they're not delivering you pizza and
you're with your wife that is the exact
moment you are no longer allowed to
order food from dominoes so we're going
to pretend I'm going to pretend on my
I'm not even going typeing in my phone
I'm afraid it's all right I'm okay to be
scared um I'm going to pretend that from
my client side device I am going to go
to dominoes.com so I type dominoes.com
into my client side device that request
leaves my
phone that request leaves my phone makes
it all the way to Domino server and
Domino
server Domino is like wait a minute wait
a minute was that
Leon is that Leon did Leon just order
something from
dominoes did we get him back is he in
the
house the all return to order
dominoes and they're they're throwing up
their kids are going to college
everything's good in the
world we're going to we're going to
we're going to pretend we're going to
pretend so I've typed in dominoes.com
pretending into my phone that pretend
request is made to Domino's server they
go wild and then they go hm what should
we respond with well they're going to
respond with HTML CSS and JavaScript
they're actual individual files right
they're actual individual files but each
of those files handle something
different so once the response comes
back to my phone I see do website in its
full Glory if you if you've never been
to Domino's and I haven't been there in
a while I haven't been there in a while
right but back in the day when you went
to Domino's website there was a
beautiful picture of a pizza at the top
and going down the
middle going down the middle was a list
of
ingredients all of that content that you
saw like the picture the text
that was all powered by
HTML no snitches exactly tiny that was
all HTML so if you've ever been to a
website and you saw content your client
side device just consumed
HTML freely
on so if you've ever been to a website
and you saw like text or images that was
HTML now
Domino's website was beautiful back in
the day the ham was pink the pineapple
was yellow the peppers were green the
ingredients were like centered so like
that color that positioning that
style that was all powered by
CSS so if you've ever gone to a website
and you saw content that was HTML you
ever been to a website and it didn't
look like a hot dump dumpster fire that
was CSS and then the
kudagra the
the the the the the the end of all
websites was that on Domino's website
you could drag the ingredients on to the
pizza
[Music]
you could drag the ingredients onto the
pizza and that was all powered by
JavaScript so if you ever went to a
website and you saw content that was
HTML if it ever looked good and not like
a hot dumpster file that was CSS and if
you could ever do things like drag and
drop interact that was all JavaScript
now now that's all stuff that's
happening on our client
side
but somebody
honestly that was hilarious uh but
that's all happening on the client side
like we're seeing all that stuff on our
device but there's a lot of stuff that
has to happen on that server on that
server there's a lot of things that have
to happen right they got to be able to
process our credit
card they got to be able to look up my
2,000 orders right they got to be able
to store the new orders into a database
right keeping track of all the orders
that somebody's ever made so there's a
lot of stuff that has to happen on the
server that's set up so that we can
handle the requests that are coming in
right when they when I make that request
to die dominoes the server needs to
process my credit card it needs to send
my order to the local dominoes it needs
to store my order in a database all this
stuff that we never see is happening
server
side right so you are all here to become
full stack web
developers what that really means is
that you will be able to write code that
runs on the client side like the HTML
the CSS the JavaScript and you will be
able to write code that runs on the
server things that enable you to process
credit cards store stuff to a database
hear those requests for pizzas coming in
right and we actually have words for
that folks that just focus on what the
user
sees right are client side developers or
frontend developers folks that focus on
just the server side are called backend
developers and individuals that do both
the front end and the back end we call
them full stack
developers now a lot of people come to
me saying Leon I just want to be a
front- end developer or Le I just want
to be a backend developer if you've
never built a full stack web application
you honestly don't know what you prefer
yet some people think that like the
front end might be more
creative or that they that the back in
might be more mathy no it's not they're
they're very different things but give
yourself a chance don't close yourself
off CU you might like one more than the
other but here's the
thing you got to know both at least the
basics you can't be a front-end
developer that that doesn't know how the
code you're writing interacts with the
backend that's how you lose your job
right people feel like they're going to
go into just the one specialty no you
got to know the full
stack right you got to know the full
stack and you're going to know the
basics and then once you know the basics
you've built a full project from scratch
then you make those decisions because
you all every single one of you here
will have built a 100 hours project a
project that you put 100 hours into
you've built the front end and the back
end and then you can stop and say all
right well maybe I like this or that or
maybe both so come in with an open mind
all right now I said that this whole
thing is about sending requests and
getting responses from our client side
device we made a request for
dominoes.com that request found its way
to the server and then a response found
its way back and the way that this all
works is that those requests are
actually going across real wires let me
show you those real
wires here we
go you got got to look behind my
drawings here are the wires here are the
transatlantic internet cables uh
there're these big ass wires that go
across the ocean that enable our
requests to move around the world inside
each of these big wires I've been told
is that there are eight fiber wires in
between in each one and each one of
those fiber wires can transmit up to 53
terabytes per second now I have never
downloaded a an illegal Blu-ray rip like
who does that right but if you had you
would know that like a good quality
Blu-ray around 3 GB so we're talking
about the entire Blu-ray collection
going across just one of those wires per
second there's eight of them in this
tube and then look at all these cables
everywhere in the world right they're
just everywhere so that's how our
requests are actually moving around the
world and the funny thing is these
requests only have 3 seconds to go from
the client to the server and back if it
takes more than 3 seconds people bounce
that's that's the professional term for
this it's called Bounce rate like how
many people just leave right now it
seems simple at first but there are a
lot of things in between our requests
from our phone or our computer all the
way to Domino server and
back typically if you're like on your
laptop or your desktop you are maybe
connected on
WiFi and the Wi-Fi
is you're going to you're going to make
a request from your device it's going to
go from your Wi-Fi to your router
through your modem and one of the first
places and give me some leeway with all
this like you could spend your whole
career on just like one portion of this
right and this is kind of an overview so
give me a little bit of leeway here but
one of the first places your request is
going to go is an
ISP what's an ISP throw it in chat
what's an ISP anybody know
somebody said is that where network
engineering comes in it can be the start
of it yeah it's an internet service
provider these are the individuals that
we pay money to to connect us to those
big old wires right
now I'm not a fan of the isps I'm really
not they charge a lot of
money but I kind of get why those big
cables that I showed you they're not
really ran by like the big folks that
we're thinking of like Verizon Comcast
those are more like government other
really big service providers maybe some
of them right what Comcast and Verizon
and all these other isps are really good
at or what we call Last Mile they're
really good at connecting your house to
those big pipes right and there was an
article not too long ago about when
Verizon came into Boston they laid fiber
may I want to take a guess what the
article said it cost them per block to
lay fiber how much you think it cost
them per
block take a
guess five million a
block five million a block so I kind of
get it I don't like paying the money but
I kind of get why they charge so much
it's a lot to lay that last mile cable
and connect us to those wires cool Next
Step that our request will probably go
through is something called a
DNS anybody know what a DNS
is yeah domain name server or system
depending on you're talking to but let's
say domain name server a DNS is just
another computer out there on this wire
and the computer is really good at doing
one thing it's a really fancy phone book
hold that in your head for a second it's
a really fancy phone book all right if I
was throwing a party and I asked you to
show up at my back porch please don't
show up my back
porch please don't do it it's not an
invitation but if I was having a party
and I wanted you to show up to my back
porch what could I
do what could I give you that would
enable you to get to my back
porch
a lot of people are saying an address
would an address get you to exactly my
back
porch get you close it's not going to
get you exactly to my back
porch coordinates exactly I could give
you the GPS the longitude and the
latitude right to my back porch and with
that you could get exactly there the
same thing happening on the internet we
typed in Domino's.
that wasn't enough to find that server
we needed something called an IP address
an IP address is kind of like the
latitude and longitude to get you to
that server so remember I said DNS was a
fancy phone book all that's really in
that phone book is an address and the IP
address right because when I'm giving
you the directions to my back porch I
could say go to 37111 491
912 comma -42 1.14 11119 like that's the
coordinates to my back porch right like
I could give you those coordinates will
you ever remember the
coordinates to the back
porch there you got them right no you
will never remember those coordinates
and there's no way in hell you remember
the coordinates for a bunch of other
people so instead of latitude latitude
and longitude and us having to remember
all of those things we have addresses 32
Cherry Street right they're very easy we
can remember 32 Cherry Street instead of
the latitude and longitude you're all
like I got anky now I got it give me the
latitude longitude right and so the idea
here is that we in the real world have
addresses to get around and on the
internet internet we have the same thing
but instead of addresses we have URLs
dominoes.com well dominoes.com is the
address it is not the latitude and
longitude to that server so we need a
DNS when we give them address
dominoes.com the URL it gives us the IP
address here's the IP address for
Domino's
4421 01
that's not Domino's IP address I'm not
that I'm not that bad come on now give
me give me a little bit more respect
than that all right but the idea here is
that it's it's something like that where
we would type in dominoes.com our
request goes through the ISP if we paid
the money then it goes to our DNS and
then the DNS would give us that IP
address and with that IP address we
could eventually make it to our server
there are lots of other steps in between
this is just an overview that server has
some code running on it right that code
hears that request comes in and knows
what to do maybe it's going to fetch
some HTML CSS in JavaScript maybe it's
going to store an order but that code
listens to the request and knows what to
do and then once it's finished with that
request it sends a response and that
response goes all the way back to the
client side but guess what that response
is going back through all these hoops
right got through all these hoops right
that we just jumped through to get to
the
server and this all works because of a
very important tool right a very
important tool
called
https HTTP there we go we'll say
HTTP right we have HTTP all this works
because of the hypertext trans trans ER
protocol it is the way that we were able
to make these requests and send these
responses right hypertex transfer
protocol actually sits on top of some
other stuff
PCP IP there's a bunch of other stuff
that like is happening to make this work
but the idea of being able to send a
request from a client and get a response
from a server is because we're sending
all this through this protocol
now something fundamentally changed
about the web a while back something
that changed this whole game for the
better kind of gave it up already what
changed about HTTP that made all this
better the S exactly we got
https or hypertext transfer protocol
secured what used to
happen is every single request you made
went through this entire chain this
entire network across all those cables
and every single person in between the
hundreds of people in between they all
got to see what you were requesting and
the response you were getting
back let that sink in for a
second back in the day not me not my
friends not people I knew but back in
the day people would go to Starbucks and
they would run a program called fire
sheet
and when they ran that program called
fire sheep it would show them all the
requests that were being made on that
Network so you could see all the sites
they were signing into all the passwords
all that stuff before we had the S once
we got the S things got
encrypted the funny thing though is that
you can still see what's being
requested and you can still see a lot of
information about that user you can see
where that user is coming from you can
see what type of computer they're on and
you can see the site that they're
requesting like the
URL and so something really interesting
happened with the isps is that the
isps w a court case that said hey not
only can we record all this stuff like
the site you're going to uh the the
computer that you're on not only can we
record all this stuff we can sell it to
the highest
bidder right and so all your isps are
doing that now because they have like
the legal authority to do it all right
so all the requests that you're making
are going through this entire network uh
and everyone can see them cool
now who uses an incognito
browser great Incognito browser really
doesn't do anything it does one very
specific thing I'm about to show you the
only thing in Incognito browser does you
ready about to show you the only thing
an incognito browser does you ready for
this pay attention ready 3 2 1 that's
the only thing that an incognito browser
saves you
from did you see what I did hold on let
me let me slow down right you ready boom
that's what it just saved me from right
if I had used an incognito browser the
things that I looked for right the the
the things that I searched for in the
past
aren't like stored locally on my machine
right
but does it mean that the websites I'm
going to nobody can figure out like my
ISP still knows that balloon website
that Everyone likes to go to right like
my ISP still
knows uh what computer I was on when I
went to those sites right and so you you
got to be careful folks all the
Incognito browser does is just so that
if your your your loved ones sit down
and they want to practice their Pomodoro
they don't get
surprised okay now a lot of you are
looking at some stuff that you don't
want other folks to know right you don't
want your ISP to see you don't want your
DNS to see you don't want all the people
in between to see that website you love
going to so much and so there is a way
to protect yourself and it is a
VPN a VPN stands for a virtual private
Network it is somebody else's computer
that you send your encrypted traffic to
and then that computer makes the request
on your behalf so you run a program on
your computer that encrypts your traffic
it goes completely encrypted through
your ISP through the DNS to this
computer where that computer decrypts it
and then makes the request on your
behalf now PE vpn's love VPN because
they think it makes the them more secure
um but here's the thing uh VPN is only
secure in the sense that you trust that
provider more than you trust your
ISP right let's say that
again a VPN only works if you trust that
provider more than you trust your ISP
there are ways to roll your your own
vpns and stuff like that but that that's
all it does so even if you're using a
VPN you're still trusting somebody else
to not log your searches to not log all
the things that you're
doing so if you want to buy your drugs
and guns online please don't do that
just through a VPN there are other
ways we'll save that for another class
though save that for another class some
folks are saying tour the onion Network
yes there there are things like the
onion Network where instead of it just
being a request and a response to a
server you you got to bounce your
request around to dozens of other
computers each time it's peeling off a
layer of the onion until it makes it to
where it needs to go and then it bounc
through all those relays again but
please if you um are trying to buy your
drugs and guns online don't just use a
VPN all right now if you've hung around
this long you now know more about the
internet than
99.999% of people on this Earth and I
need you to go into the world and do
good with it so I'm going to KN you all
hold on real
quick you are all newly KN at developers
of the web go on and do well with this
information you now know how your
request leave your client side devices
and make it to the server you now know
that your ISP and the DNS are in between
listening for it you now know that a VPN
can protect you if you trust your VPN
more than you trust your ISP you know
there might be other things like tour
that can keep you a little more more
safer you understand that your requests
are going across these wires using a
protocol called HTTP and at the end of
the day the way the internet works is by
sending requests from a client and
getting responses from a server over
these 30 weeks I'm going to teach you
how to write the code that runs on the
client side devices the code that runs
on the servers and everything else you
need to get a job as a software engineer
that focuses in full stack web
development
cool all
right where we at we're a little over
we're a little over give me uh give me
five five more minutes five more minutes
five more minutes we're gonna go just a
little bit over little bit over Jazzy
girl thank you for the 10 Subs give me
give me five more minutes we're going to
go a little over
here all right who's heard of HTML 5 we
talked about HTML being the content on
the page right talk about HTML being in
the content page who's heard of
something called
HTML
5 yep I see a lot of you have heard of
HTML 5 HTML 5 is the fifth version of
HTML right it is the fifth version of
HTML the idea is that when the web first
started the web is like what we use to
view these websites right the internet's
the wires the the system but the web is
something that sits on top of it and
when the web first came out um there we
had what we called the browser Wars all
these companies said if we make the best
browser we will own the internet and so
you would write code that work for one
that just literally didn't work for
another and so so sir Tim burner Lee
rode in on their White Horse and they
said wait a minute hold on hold on hold
on
I I helped make all this stuff why don't
we agree to some standards so that the
web will work for all and people kind of
ignored them for like 10 years but
eventually they came to their senses and
people started agreeing to these
standards and the worldwide Web
Consortium or the w3c was created it's
the standards body that says hey let's
all come together all the big folks from
all the big browsers all the big
universities and people that are voted
on boards to protect
the web and push it Forward well we are
on the fifth version right the fifth
version of what HTML could
be and with this fifth version we got
some new
stuff if you've ever watched a YouTube
video in on the browser in your phone
you were dealing with HTML 5 video back
in my day I had to
open I had to
open right I had to open
another program on my computer right to
run
videos all right then we got things like
flash and silver light which made
running videos in the Brows a little bit
easier but then the web progressed even
further and now we have HTML 5 video
that enables us to run videos in the
browser if you ever listen to SoundCloud
or Spotify in the browser that's HTML 5
Audio if you've ever played those IO
games like the agio sither.io like these
games that happen in the browser they're
using HTML 5 canvas for all the
animations and stuff like that uh funny
thing is that most of them are not
multiplayer if you turn off your Wi-Fi
you keep playing the game all the
same I didn't know that that kind of
broke my heart a little bit um a
geolocation when you go to to a website
it can ask for your location like do you
want to let me know where you are or do
I have to do Shady stuff like sniff your
IP address to figure out where you're
from and then the last thing that we got
well not the last thing but one of the
last big things we got with HTML 5 was
this idea of websockets it was uh old
like open peer-to-peer connection so if
you've ever spent a late night on chat
roulette or a megal talking about
politics you were benefiting from
websockets so all this
stuff right right all this
stuff is new it came by pushing the web
forward and we're on the fifth version
of
it
co tonight this is the most important
thing I am going to show you uh thank
you for all the gifted Subs I appreciate
you um tonight this is the most
important thing that I am going to show
you it's called the Golden Rule Ru or
separation of
concerns right the idea being here is
that the idea being that we want to keep
our concerns separate our HTML should be
kept separate from our CSS our CSS
should be kept separate from our
JavaScript and never should these things
mix remember HTML was our
content CSS was our style
and JavaScript is our behavior and
interaction so when you go to a
website and I asked
you if I asked you
to add an extra paragraph right if I
asked you to add an extra paragraph uh
to your website what technology would
you use if I asked you to add an extra
paragraph what would you
use nice
HTML if I asked you to uh make something
pink what technology would you
use nice
CSS and if I asked you when you click
something I want it to wiggle what would
you
use JavaScript remember not Java Java is
a different language JavaScript nice now
the idea here is that we don't want to
put CSS into our HTML or HTML into our
JavaScript we want to keep them separate
why is this such an important rule the
Golden Rule why is keeping our concerns
separate such a big deal why do you
think yeah makes it easier to read and
for
organization it's for Organization for
yourself and it's Organization for the
team that you work on right when I come
back to my code and I want to make
something purple I know to go to my CSS
I don't have to look anywhere else I go
straight to my CSS and when someone on
my team wants to add more text they can
go directly to the
HTML right and when I come back to my
code six months later I have no idea
what the heck's going on but I want to
make something wiggle I know I can go
straight to my JavaScript and I don't
have to worry about anything ever being
mixed so a lot of tutorials that you
will do will sometimes mix all these
things together don't you want to keep
your concerns separate it's one of the
first kind of serious things you're
going to accept as a professional
software engineer that there are these
rules these paradigms that you agree to
to set a standard for your
code all right we're going to head off
with just some HTML I know we're a
little over tonight we're going to end
off with a little bit of HTML if you do
have to run don't worry the VOD will be
immediately available after class I
don't normally ever go over with class I
just want to make sure we get to this
little bit of piece tonight uh and then
we'll stop so we're stopping very soon
less than five minutes all right the
first thing I said we were going to
cover is HTML we talked about HTML CSS
and JavaScript being the languages of
the front end the interesting thing is
that HTML and CSS are not technically
programming languages they're markup
languages whereas JavaScript is a fully
featured programming language we're
going to start off with HTML then we'll
move into CSS and then we'll move into
JavaScript over the next couple of weeks
HTML like any language has what we call
its
syntax right its syntax meaning the the
rules and Rhymes that we have to use
when we write that language HTML syntax
is very simple every bit of content on
the page must be wrapped in tags so here
you see a little bit of text called Hol
world right s text called Hollow world
that must
be incased in an opening tag and a
closing tag right an opening tag and a
closing tag so here I have some text
hello world and I'm going to have an
opening tag and a closing tag now there
are lots of different kinds of tags that
we're going to learn on Thursday asan
those tags has a
reason why you would use it right
there's a reason why you would use that
tag as opposed to the other tag and the
interesting thing is that there's really
only like 30 tags that you really need
to know so by the end of Thursday's
class we'll have a pretty good handle
and all the tags that you're going to
want to use this makes you miss Myspace
yeah we're going to talk about that on
Thursday actually um a lot of developers
got their start there right so this idea
is that whenever you're writing HTML
everything must be wrapped in tags uh
there are like two tags that kind of
cheat this images and inputs since
they're already content they don't need
closing tags they're already content
themselves but let's not get ahead of
ourselves when you have content wrapping
in tags so let me show you some code
real quick and then we're going to stop
for the
evening all right so we're going to go
ahead and look at this about page and
then we'll stop with that about page so
here's some
code right now it is just text right but
if I want this to be HTML if I want a
server to be able to respond with this
so that this file can run in my browser
I need to wrap every bit of content
inside of tags please don't code along
tonight we'll start coding together on
Thursday that's why I said after
Thursday you will be true software
Engineers you will have written your
first line of code tonight just pay
attention to what I'm doing so I can
explain a
concept for Thursday's class you're
going to need some sort of text editor
or something like code pen or glitch
where you can write code but don't worry
we'll start off class with those things
you don't have to download anything
ahead of time this text editor is what I
use called vs code and it's what I use
to write pretty much all of my code here
I have some plain text and every bit of
text must be wrapped in what chat all my
texts must be wrapped in
what exactly must be wrapped in tags and
remember I said there are different tags
for different reasons or different
purposes when we're choosing tags we
care about one the importance of that
element and two the semantic meaning
behind that content and so what I will
wind up doing is wrapping all of this
text in actual tag so here's a tag that
I'm going to wrap this in called an
H1 you're going to notice that this H1
opens and then the H1 closes and the
only difference right the only
difference is that lovely little forward
SL so you're going to notice that pretty
much all your opening tags are going to
look like your closing tags except for
that forward slash all right now I chose
to wrap this first class 100 devs in an
H1 because I thought it was the most
important content on the page there are
going to be tags that we use that help
us to know if something is important
there going to be tags that help us to
know what type of content it may be
right and so the idea here is that we're
eventually going to wrap all of our
content in the appropriate tag right now
first class 100 devs if you came to this
website that's what I want you to know I
don't want you to walk with anything
else except for that so it was the most
important if we look at this text
here we have a big block of text if you
were to read a book or a magazine and
you saw a big block of text what would
you call that big block of text in a
book or a magazine there there you go we
call it a paragraph So in HTML we have a
P tag this right here that open carrot
and the p is the P tag that opens and we
go to the end and we close our P tag
right so we have this lovely open and we
have the lovely close boom open and
close now we also have
here a a bunch of locations we might say
we have a what of
locations yeah a list of locations well
in HTML there are two kinds of lists
there are ordered lists and unordered
lists right to me yes these might be in
alphabetical order but nobody's getting
in trouble if these are not in the right
order think of like a recipe or yeah
think of like a recipe if you like try
and make a recipe but things are not in
the right order right if you try to make
a recipe but things are not in the right
order you're going to wind up in trouble
like if you try to put like the cake mix
before you put in the water and you put
it into the oven before you stirred it
you're going to have a bad batch of
brownies right you're going have a bad
Bratch of brownies so for me it doesn't
matter if these are not in order so I'm
going to use an unordered list I'm going
to have my UL that opens and I'm going
to take this closing tag and go all the
way to the end and make sure that my
entire list is wrapped in a
UL right now what do you typically have
on a list like if I had a grocery list
what goes on a grocery
list items exactly
items go on our grocery list and so here
I have a bunch of items that go in this
UL we're going to call these list items
and so what I'm going to do is I'm going
to go
ahead and I am going to wrap each one of
these in An Li and you're like Leon what
is this developer magic that you are
doing well don't worry you come back
Thursday I will show you you how to do
cool stuff like this and this is the
reason why we use a text editor it's the
reason why we don't just like open up a
Google doc and start writing code there
are tools and tricks and things that you
can learn inside of your text editor
these shortcuts that make writing code
way
easier right way
easier now down here we have another
what another block of text so we
probably have another what
another paragraph exactly so we're going
to reuse our P tag here P tag is going
to open and we're going to come over
here and our P Tag's going to
close nice now the cool thing is we can
save all of this and then what we can
actually do is if we want we can come
back to our browser and see it in the
browser don't worry about how to do this
we're going to go over all this stuff on
Thursday but here is our lovely website
that we just built right using some very
basic HTML tags the thing that really
catches my eye
first is that this first class 100 devs
is big bold black and beautiful much
like myself but what's interesting about
that what
should what should handle something
being big and bold right what what
should handle that being big and bold
what should be what should that
that should be
CSS did I write any
CSS I don't think so let me check I
don't see any I don't see any CSS no I
didn't so this is the browser Wars alive
and well remember how I said the
browsers kind of just did their own
thing and they applied their own style
and they did whatever the heck they
wanted but we're still fighting that
battle and so when we come back on
Thursday I'm going to show you how to
solve this problem to make sure that
when we write HTML it's just HTML we'll
eventually Le how to write CSS to handle
this right and we're going to progress
into learning the basics of HTML so I
hope you learned some stuff this evening
I hope you had some fun kind of laying
the groundwork for the course laying the
groundwork for to
come understanding how you really should
approach the learning process active
recall spaced repetition I hope you had
fun learning how the internet works at a
very basic level and I hope this little
sniff of HTML get you excited for
Thursday because we're going deep on it
and if tonight the HTML didn't make any
sense don't worry we're going to spend
all Thursday just on HTML making sure it
makes sense and make sure it clicks now
now you don't want to
run you want to hang around for a second
because we are going to do a raid and
when you raid you get more Channel
points so we're going to raid one of our
best mentors in the community um someone
that always shows up time and time uh
again for our community and so we're
going to raid them and whenever we do a
raid uh the whole point is just to spend
share some love and positivity to give
them a follow and to see what they're up
to in building we only ever really raid
folks that are developers as well and so
this developer is someone that really
knows their stuff and turns up to help
you all the time so give them some love
give them a follow and I will see you
all hanging out over there when you're
done with the raid and you're done
hanging out make sure you do your active
recall start your space repetition and I
will see you all on Thursday thank you
for a wonderful first class everyone uh
I'm starting the raid and we're going to
go over there in 10 seconds so don't
forget Thursday 6:30 p.m. eastern time
we go live we're diving into HTML I'll
see you all over there with the raid
peace